Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Off a couple of ground couple of ground rules really quickly.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I believe in intellectual honesty.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And by that I mean, you know, if you're gonna be here, be here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So please do what I just did. Shut down your email. shut down slack. I literally turned off slack. Turn your phone off and engage.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That doesn't mean this is the most important thing you have to do right. Now, if you have something more important to do, if you have a customer call. If you have an investor call, you have something more important. Put yourself on video, mute and go do that thing and give it a hundred percent of your attention. If you think you can be like replying to email and listening to financial modeling at the same time, you're fooling yourself, and you'll do neither one. Well.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so I want you to do one or the other. So if you're here, video on, if you have headphones, feel free to keep your mic open so that you so that
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's really hard to do this talk remotely. But if I you know, if you laugh at my jokes every once in a while. That's okay. You'll know I'm not a comedian, but that feedback is great. If you're on without a microphone we'll get feedback. So keep your my mic muted. Unless you want to talk. Feel free to jump in any time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna provide all of the materials from this talk. You're gonna get a copy of this deck. You're gonna get a copy of this financial model. You're gonna get a copy of another financial model. There is no real need to take notes. I gave this on Friday in person at Mhub, and when I do it in person, I have everybody put their laptops away.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's how I enforce the no slack, no email rule. And if you want to take notes, take it on paper. It's way more important that you engage deeply, then, that you're taking notes. But if you want to take notes, take notes, I will give you all the materials and in terms. I see. Neil raised hand. Hold on now. I gotta get the chat up somewhere so I can see the chat while you're doing that. Let me just reinforce what you just said. Guys, let me tell you, this is gonna be a brain. It's gonna make your brain hurt a little bit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But power through
Neal Sáles-Griffin: eliminate your distractions. Don't text, don't do things on the side. Do exactly what Troy just said, and give your full, undivided attention to this talk. You will not regret. It is one of the best
Neal Sáles-Griffin: things you could do for your business and your understanding of your business, so please trust us in giving your full, undivided attention and focus to this time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And then the other piece of this is, I give this talk a ridiculous number of times a year. I literally think it's the between 35 and 40 times a year right now, and that's nutty. And what that means is a couple of things.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: One is, I am bored to tears of giving this talk. So I would love you guys to engage, ask questions. Don't be polite and raise your hand. Just jump in and and ask questions and interrupt. The more engaging, the better, the more interactive, the better to keep me honest. I could skip entire sections of the talk, and I won't even realize it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because to me it all makes sense. I don't need to step by step by step. So if I skip something or something doesn't make sense. Jump in there and let me know and blurt out.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Lilian, I know I was late at getting you, but I emailed you the polls, are you? Did you see that email? Yeah, Brad is sending it up right now? Alright. So there are 5 separate polls. So they come up one at a time, and I will try to prompt you for them. We'll probably skip at least one of them, so I'll just refer to them as Poll 1, 2, you'll you'll figure it out
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright. Let's get rolling. This is all about financial modeling objectives, I believe, as an entrepreneur. Everything you do should have an objective. If you don't have an objective for a meeting, you literally should not take that meeting, and I practice what I preach. So I have 2 objectives.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Wanna help you raise money more easily, and I wanna help you run your business better. How many people wanna raise money more easily raise your physical hand.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. I see lots of hands. How many people wanna run your business? Better raise your physical hand cool. So if we achieve those 2 things in the next 120 min this will be a success. The way we're gonna do this is, give you some takeaways. I want you understand the power of having great model. I want you have the skills to build on yourself, and I want you to know the best practices for how to make it most effective.
Lilliana Robinson: And Lilian or Brad, if you could pipe in with if there's stuff in the chat that I need to pay attention to, because I'm really I don't have the chat up, but I can't really see it. Of course I can see it, but it's sort of not where I'm focused. So totally, yeah, yeah, the more interactive the better. Again, this talk is for you. It's not for me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So the way we make it for you is by addressing your questions and stuff, and I'm going to give you the last page of this deck. Is this resource page that has links to all kinds of resources because we can't cover everything in 120 min. All right. So we're gonna talk about why a financial model we're gonna walk through what one looks like. We're gonna understand what makes a model great.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Discuss how you build one at the high level. I will give you links to resources for all the nitty, gritty detail and how to use it most effectively cool. So what's a financial model? What is a financial model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: guys? Thi, this is the interactive part of the talk. Come on.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's gonna be really long and boring.
Kevin Corbett: It's an abstract mathematical model of your business. You can't use the word model to define model. Let's try again. Come on, excel spreadsheet of numbers that describe your business and projection to the future.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Awesome. I love that you fell right into my trap. Use the word projections.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right. So let's say, what are financial projections as distinct and different from a financial model. What are financial projections?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Let's have Kevin take that once and oh, someone else! Go ahead.
Reece Franklin: They haven't happened yet. That was me trying to talk. I
Reece Franklin: my laptop stuff. But it's very weird right now. So if I background noise or whatever, let me know, they haven't happened yet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that's what projections are things that haven't happened yet.
Reece Franklin: Yes, based on the evidence of things that have happened.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Based on what has happened. So, taking what has happened and projecting into the future. extrapolating into the future. Is that fair?
Reece Franklin: I think that's fair.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright! Anybody wanna add or subtract to that for financial projections.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Brad, do you have the first quiz the first poll available.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: No, I'm still working on the post. Right? Sorry. So we'll skip the first one, so I am curious. If you get, we'll do it manually. How many people I'm gonna give you choice, that second bullet, how many people think it's more valuable for startups for projections, or how many people think projections are more startup or more valuable for mature businesses. How many people think they're more valuable for startups? Raise your hand
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright, I see a bunch. How many people think it more mature, more valuable for mature businesses? Alright. I'm gonna make the case. I think that projections are more valuable for mature businesses. And here's why
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you have a lot of data to pull from.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so you can make pretty accurate projections. For example, I could take. I'm trying to think of a publicly traded company that I'm gonna make fun of today today. I don't know. I'm gonna pick Google. So Google, I don't know much about Google.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in spite of the fact. They use it all the time. But I don't know much about their finances. I could take Google's 2022 numbers, I could probably say, Hey, there! Take their 2,022 revenue multiply by 100. 810. That's going to be the 2,023 revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I could take their 2022 expenses multiplied by 103%. That's their 2023 expenses. I just nailed
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the numbers for Google Google's a hard one. Maybe it grew a little faster. But think about ge. General Motors, Ibm any of these big companies with history nailed without even knowing their business, that well.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: if any of you can take your last year's numbers, multiply by 108, get this year's revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and take last year's expense by 103%. And get this year's quit tech stars. Right now, this program's not for you. Right? We're trying to build high growth businesses.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay? So now I'm gonna give Kevin a second chance.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Kevin. What is a financial model as distinct and different from financial projections?
Kevin Corbett: Financial model is a guests
Kevin Corbett: that you use to.
Kevin Corbett: It's a guess based on
Kevin Corbett: your current business, about what it could look like in the future.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I don't know how that's any different than projections.
Ben Ayd: Is it based on assumptions rather than data?
Elaborate a little further
Ben Ayd: so for especially for, like what we're doing right now for startups. We don't have any data to really go off of. So we're we're testing our assumptions. And we're basing our whole model off of those assumptions. And how. And then eventually, we'll see how valid those and how right we were with those versus a mature business you can actually like, I said with Google, you can pull from more
Ben Ayd: historical data.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Anybody want to refine that a little further?
I would like to refine that.
Darren Schaeffer: I think that a model allows you to
Darren Schaeffer: pull different levers and see what. how those will affect your growth over time, so that you can decide on which levers to focus on, to grow your business in the most efficient way.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah. So I heard a bunch of things I really liked assumptions levers. Allowing you to to to test different levers and see it. I'll give you my definition. My definition is that a financial model is a mathematical representation of the inner workings of your business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It mirrors
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in a spread sheet how your business works in the real world. Financial model has inputs or assumptions.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Some of those inputs are levers big levers to move the business. and a financial model has outputs. What do you think the output of a financial model is
andrew: forecasted expenses, user growth revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And what's another way to say that
Reece Franklin: money?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's right in front of you. Projections. Yes. the output of a model is a set of financial projections. but they're derived differently. Instead of taking history and just saying, Oh, we're going to increase everything by 10 next year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We actually try to understand what drives the business. What are those levers? As Darren said so now. Liliana, do we have question number 2 ready? Yes.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: all right, let's throw Poll number 2 up. and I'm curious what you think
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: are financial models more useful for startups or mature businesses? Don't overthink it. Just everybody put in an answer. 3,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2, one. Everybody put in an answer. Boom!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So it looks like you guys think it's more valuable for startups and mature businesses. Let's give someone who thinks it's more valuable for mature businesses. Why do you think it's more valuable for mature businesses?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I don't know who picked what? Just give a case.
Mason Kimbarovsky: Mature businesses have a lot more data that they can use to build their model right? So startups have the issue where, as we just heard, there's not a lot of data which means you'll be guessing a lot more variables.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Totally true. Alright, somebody want to take the case for why, it's more valuable for startups
Reece Franklin: with startups. You normally don't have that data and you're going to need to make those kind of assumptions and input them into the model. The fact that you can kind of game out several different options and scenarios, for how your startup grows and scales allows you to more easily pivot as you branch out, and more of the unknown variables do become known.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, III take the case. I make the case that a financial model is more useful for startups because
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it forces you to ask questions you wouldn't otherwise have asked of your business, many of you, not all, but many of you that submitted models to me got a response that was sort of smartass that said, Oh, you just typed in how many customers you're gonna get each month, or oh, you just typed in a month over month growth rate. Is that gonna happen automatically
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? And the biggest mistake that I see startup founders make is they just have assumptions about what their growth is going to be.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And the reality is that that doesn't happen automatically.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and that we have to work hard at it. And a proper model
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: doesn't have customers as an assumption or new customers or growth rates as an assumption. Those are all an output of the levers that you have the hard work that you have to do to get those customers. How much did I spend on search engine marketing? How many trade shows did I go to? How many salespeople do I have? How efficient are those people, all of those kinds of things?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Not a hundred percent of businesses are we able to model perfectly like that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and it's much easier when you have high volume. So the it's sure payroll. I didn't tell you anything about my history. So 10 Si was a serial entrepreneur, built a bunch of companies most notably sure payroll. Sure payrolls. First Internet payroll company in the country I then spent. I should have done this at the beginning. I'm sorry, spent a bunch of time helping other entrepreneurs, so I co-founded the accelerator here in Chicago, which was originally called Accelerate Labs. It became called Techstar, Chicago, in 2,013,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: when we merged with Texas, I ran that for 7 years run a venture fund called Math venture. Partners ran another help, another fund called Firestarter Fund, and have made about 36 angel investments. At this point I've been on the cap table with 200 companies. I've seen this play out so many times
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I'm gonna tell you some sure payroll stories at some point in this talk. But, It forces you to ask questions of how your business works that you wouldn't necessarily otherwise have asked. And so I think financial models are way more useful
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: for startups. Alright, I'm gonna talk about a different kind of model really, quickly. So
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: maybe this is a model of a car. This is how we used to make cars. This is an 8 scale clay model, late forties. This is or late, 50. Sorry. This is an early sixties. Chevrolet. This is a full size scale model. So what they did was they built that 8 scale clay model. They got it the way they wanted it. Then they built a full size scale model out of clay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: For some reason they put glass headlights and rubber tires. I can't explain. Here's the backside of the same car. You can see they're playing with the tail lights. They get it exactly the way they want it, and once it's perfect.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: then they build the actual prototype. They build it out of metal. It has a glass windshield, it has an engine, seats all that stuff. and then they need a test driver. And who do I get to pick on today?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Crystal? You want to be our test driver.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You've been. You've been quiet so far, awesome. So Crystal is going to be our test driver and Crystal gets behind the the wheel of the car and we take it out on the test track, and the test track involves a hairpin. Turn at 30 miles an hour for stability.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Crystal takes it around the hairpin, turn at 30 miles an hour, and boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! The car rolls over.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Damn cars! Not stable enough. We gotta go back to the drawing board, so we go back to the a scale clay model, and we make the wheel base a little wider. We lower the center of gravity. We stiffen up the springs. Whatever it is, we gotta do.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We get that perfect? When that's perfect, we build a full size scale model with the new dimensions, the new screens, new suspension. And when we get that correct?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Then we build a new metal prototype.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and this process takes 6 or 12 months. It's very expensive. These prototypes cost millions of dollars a piece, and it's very time consuming. It's actually good that it costs. It took 6 or 12 months because Crystal sorry. But you were in the hospital. You had like a broken clavicle and a punctured lung. It took a little while for that to repair. And now we gotta talk you into getting back in the car and test driving. You insist on a big helmet, 5 point seat belts, and a bunch of safety equipment airbags. But we get you in and hopefully the car successfully goes around the hairpin turn at 30 miles an hour.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is a very expensive process, and we risked Crystal's life.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We don't build cars like that anymore. How do we design cars today?
Myles Jackson: 3D models?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, we use CAD, and we draw them. And we can fill in the polygons. We can see the car in 3 dimensions, we know from the blueprints of the interior. We know everything about the car down to its spark plugs and and valves every single thing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Obviously, it's way easier to make changes on the computer than in a clay model. But much more importantly than that, because the computer knows everything about the car. We can do a simulation.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We can take that car on a virtual test drive. The computer understands the center of gravity, the coefficient of friction, all that stuff, the power.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so we don't have to risk Crystal's life
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to test, drive this car. And so we test, drive it, and when it goes around the hairpin, turn at 30 miles an hour, and it flips over. Boom, boom, boom, boom! Boom!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We go back to the drawing board and we make the wheel basic inches wide. Are we lower center gravity? We stiffen up the springs and we're back on the test track
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 6 or 12 min.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay, maybe it's 6 or 12 h, but you get the point. 6 or 12 h later with a brand new car with brand new specs, and we can test it. We can iterate much more quickly. We don't spend millions of dollars, and we don't waste
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: months, potentially years of of people's lives. So now the question I have for you is, would it be valuable to you if, instead of taking a car on a virtual test drive. You had the ability to take your business on a virtual test drive.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You want to do that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Wouldn't it be cool to be able to see how your business is going to perform before you waste millions of dollars of investors, money, and years of your life.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: of course. and that's what we're going to do with the financial model. Now, when I started giving this talk many years ago
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: oh, I'm actually wearing a Cba shirt. This was in origin, anyway. II developed this talk for a
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: there was a Kellogg professor. This isn't material, but I gotta tell Kellogg, Professor Barry Merkin, who was amazing. He was my mentor, and he and I taught an Mba. Class in Croatia for 2 summers in a row, and I developed the class, for
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: oh, we're getting feedback from some. Okay. Liliana took care of it. And I developed this class for that talk back in in 2,004, and I'm happy to be wearing the shirt from from it. Chroma business Academy. Anyway. When I started doing this talk, people said, I don't need that stuff I got.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I got accounting. I got quick books. I got all the numbers I need. Well, I'm here to tell you the quick books is a rear view mirror. It's a view into what happened last month last quarter last year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Imagine trying to drive down the streets of Chicago only being able to look in your rear view mirror. What's going to happen?
Darren Schaeffer: It's gonna crash!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Damn right, you're gonna crash!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You can't just look in your review mirror now at textiles. You are going to get lots of tools for monitoring how your business is doing right now. We call them dashboards or kpis.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But imagine trying to drive down the streets of Chicago, only being allowed to look at your dashboard. You're going to crash
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right in order to successfully navigate.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You need to be able to see in front of you, and the financial model is the only tool that I know of that allows you to see in front of you. Yet there are so many entrepreneurs that insist on running their business without
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: without a financial model. I do not understand it. It is literally like trying to drive with your windshield covered in black paint.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright, I'm done with car analogies, I promise.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I was giving this talk a year ago, and as I walked in to give the talk I got an email that popped up from one of the companies in our math venture partners, portfolio team, genius. And Chris had recently sold his company, and he was telling me UN on
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I didn't provoke him at all, but he just randomly sent me this email, telling me how great the financial model had been for him. And here's the actual email. I want you to look at this last line. This has improved our ability to plan tremendously and brought more confidence to our decision making.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is an actual email from Chris. It'll be in the deck if you want to. He's giving me permission. That's his real phone number. In his real email. You can reach out to him and ask him. He, he!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: He attributes a lot of their success to the work we did with the financial model. Alright. So let's go back to it. So what do we say? The output from the model was
Nat Froikin: projections set of financial projections. What format do those projections take?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Just a bunch of numbers? Randomly, Eric.
Kevin Corbett: They are an American cost.
Craig Silver: cash, flow, income statement.
Craig Silver: balance sheet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I heard it. Income statement, balance, sheet statement of cash flows. Why am I so specific about these 3 statements?
Craig Silver: What investors care about
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it? Is
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it is so. Is there anybody on this call? Where English is your second language?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: There usually is. There usually are multiple. Nobody. Come on
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: all right, Stephen.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I saw your hand up first. What was your first language?
Steven Jiang: Good news?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Chinese Chinese is a difficult language. I was in China.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I tried to learn how to say no.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: which is boy yao. except I don't pronounce it properly, and people didn't have any idea what I was saying.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then I tried to sell me something. I said, Boy, yeah. They tried to stop boy out. And then finally they say, Oh, boy, yeah, right? How do you say it correctly?
Steven Jiang: We are
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that. See, that sounds the same to me. But anyway, that's my extent of my Chinese knowledge. Let's assume, for the sake of argument, that you are much more comfortable
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: speaking in Chinese than in English.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you are going to come and pitch me your business
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: at math venture partners, are you gonna pitch me in Chinese or in English.
Steven Jiang: English.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I thought you're more comfortable speaking Chinese. Isn't that your comfortable language?
Steven Jiang: But you don't speak as one Chinese.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I wouldn't understand a word you said if you pitched me in Chinese right
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: now, why do we make our projections in this rigid format of an income statement. A balance sheet statement of cash flows
Reece Franklin: the language the business speaks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's the language of investors. Exactly. If you want to communicate to investors, you have to communicate in their language, just as Steven would communicate to me in English when he pitches his business. If you have a a good investor, even a mediocre investor can look at an income statement, a balance sheet statement of cash flows and understand the health of your business and the direction you're going in minutes.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I know exactly where you all hide cash. When when you don't have enough, you let your accounts receivable. I mean you let your accounts payable grow. You don't pay your debt like I can look at these things and see what's going on so fast.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you send me some big spreadsheet that has all of it intermix cash and expenses and revenue and kpis in one big sheet that you understand really well, and you run the business from.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's gonna take me forever to decode it. It's like me sitting with a Chinese to English dictionary and trying to decode every word that I see. It's not effective. I'm going to be frustrated.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So if your goal is to raise money, you use these 3 statements, and I strongly suggest to use them anyway, because they are. There's a reason investors use them. It's been proven over time. So let's review really quickly. What's on the income statement?
Reece Franklin: Money coming in
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: revenue. what else
Farhan: expenses.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What else
Chad Wilson: profits?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yep.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and an income statement. No cash on hand is not on the income statement that'll come on the balance sheet, and the income statement covers a period of time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I can have it, for it's typically for a month or a quarter a year. But it could be any period of time it could literally be the last 12 days. Here's my revenue for the last 12 days, my expenses for the last 12 days. The difference between them is my profit. For the last 12 days it can be any period of time. It could be 12 min
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: again. It's usually a quarter a month a year. Balance sheet. Now, what's on the balance sheet
Farhan: assets
Chad Wilson: liability
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and
Chad Wilson: equity
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: equity? And is it for a period of time?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Point in time? Right? That's an instant in time or a point in time, and the reason for that is the balance sheet
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is called a balance sheet, because before computers used it to check your math. Assets have to equal liabilities plus equity by definition. because assets are all the things you have in your possession.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Liabilities are the things you owe other people, and what's left is yours, equity. So by definition, assets have to equal liability plus equity. So when you were in the old days. Literally, you know, picture 19 forties, people with pencils and paper and giant ledgers. When they were done, they had to check that. Their assets equaled their liabilities, equities. If it didn't make a math mistake. We don't do that anymore, but we do use the balance sheet to see
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: how much we have, how much we owe, and what's ours, and the reason it's an instant in time is that I could have my balance sheet for right now. 110'clock central time on September. What is today? 6 on September sixth, and then a minute later, a customer comes and buys something.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, guess what? Once they bought something. My assets are different, my liabilities may be different. My equity is different.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? And so it's at an instant. In time. It also is typically at the end of a month, the end of a quarter, the end of a year. But you could have a balance sheet for any moment in time. You want it. Theoretically, that would be very unusual.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay? Statement of cash flows. What's on? The statement of cash flows at a high level.
Chad Wilson: Passion flows and outflows.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yep, which results in net cash flow?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Is it for a period of time or an incident? Time
Reece Franklin: instant
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is it? Can cash flow in an instant.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it has to be for a period of time, because you need, I think, a flow like a river. You want to see how much water flowed through the river, and so you need. Did it flow for a week for a month, for a year. So cash flow. Ca, again, can be any period of time. It's typically a month, a quarter a year, but it could be the last 12 days, the last 12 days. Here's much how much cash came in.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Here's how much cash went out, and here's the net cash flow. So it's a period of time. Wait a minute. This sounds a lot like a income statement cash in and revenue sound the same cash out and expenses. Sound the same and net cash flow and profits sound the same right
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners:  so then why do I need both. This seems repetitively redundant.
Reece Franklin: Period versus instant.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now both an income statement and a cash flow are for a period of time.
Chad Wilson: The way we account for them is different in the accounting system versus cash accounting.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What do you mean? Elaborate.
Chad Wilson: So when we recognize revenue, for instance, that's going to be different from when the cash is actually arriving on hand.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay? So that's one difference could be timing of cash versus revenue. And I'm gonna I'm gonna give people a little more detail on that second. There are a couple of others. Do you know what the anybody want to throw out? What the other 2 to big differences are
Christal Hector: cash can come in and out from activities that are not necessarily the operating activities.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So non-cash non-operating activities. That's a good one
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: or the other way I think about it is non cash activity, non cash expenses like depreciation. right? And there's a third one that's really important to many of you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: very soon
Darren Schaeffer: applicable. really interesting capital investment
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: raising capital. So if you go out and you raise a million bucks that doesn't show up on your income statement. That's not revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but it surely better show up on your balance sheet in your in your bank account. How does it get there? It gets her through the cash flow statement. So I like to use this little I do this little stick. If we're in person
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to highlight this for the people who are unclear about this? What is this? A cruel, accounting thing and recognizing revenue?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so what happens is on an income statement.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I'm assuming this is an accrual based income statement. You will all be using an accrual method eventually, if you're not today, but a cruel based income statement, you record the revenue earned when you do the hard work.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: independent of when you get paid. So, depending on your business, you may get paid at the same time, or you may have a business where you do the hard work. Today I paint someone's house, and they say I'll pay you in 30 days, and you get paid 30 days later. But I earned the money when I painted the house
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? And so imagine
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna let you in on a secret. I have a new invention. This invention is called a magicmagic marker.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and imagine I were in person with you, I would sell you these magic magic markers. Now the reason you all want a magic marker. You were talking about pens earlier for those of you who are on early, and which pen you like best. There is no marker that is better than the magicmagic marker, and the reason for that is
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that if you ask it a question, it will tell you the right answer. So if you want to know what the winning lottery numbers are next week, ask it. It will write it on the whiteboard.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You want to know who's going to win the the World Series this year? Ask the magicmagic marker. It'll tell you. You want to know what the price of Bitcoin is going to be next week. It will tell you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You guys all want a magic magic marker, don't you?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Do? I see some nods? You want magic. Who wants one? Come on who wants a magic magic marker? Alright, I see some. So now I'm gonna do the hard work of work in the room, and I'm gonna go to each one of you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna go to Nat, and I'm gonna go to Ben and Andrew and and and work myself. Miles all the people around the room, and I'm gonna sell you one of these. Now, these are 100 bucks. They're not cheap and likely none of you sitting on 100 bucks of cash. So you say to me, oh, Troy, I'll pay you later. I'm like that's cool. Here's your magic magic marker. You owe me 100 bucks. You owe me 100 bucks, and Iphone owes me 100 bucks. I have no idea who that is. Lance owes me 100 bucks, Mason, Darren, etc.,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then tomorrow you all find me sitting at home watching soap operas, eating bonbons.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: By the way, I never sit still, but don't let the truth get in the way of a good story. I never watch soap operas. I never eat bonbons. But anyway, you guys come to my house, and you each give me the 100 bucks. I live just outside of Chicago, north of Chicago and Evanston.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So now let's talk about this for a moment. Let's assume there are 20 people on the call, and I sold 20 magic magic markers for 100 bucks. What does my income statement say? My revenue is for today. When I sold the magicmagic markers
Craig Silver: 2,000
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: $2,000 because I did the hard work of selling, and I delivered you the product. I have revenue of $2,000 today.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What does my income statement say tomorrow, when I'm sitting on the couch eating bonbons, watching soap operas, and I get all the money. What's my income statement? Say
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: tomorrow that my revenue is
Craig Silver: 0 0
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 0. Because I didn't earn any money. I just collected it. I collected money that was owed to me previously.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, what does my cash flow say today when I work hard and sell you all these magicmagic markers. cash flow, statement
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 0. And tomorrow, when I'm meeting bond bonds, my cash flow statement says.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2,000 2,000 bucks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. So here's the rub. You see
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: if you ran your business based on cash flow, you could quickly come to the conclusion that what you should do is sit around and watch soap operas and eat bomb bonds, because that's when the 2,000 came in.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But because we're trying to build real businesses, we want to do more of the good stuff that gets us forward. So we're gonna run our businesses on the income statement, which is gonna record. When the hard work was done.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: all mature businesses run off the income statement. They will check the cash flow statement and make sure they get enough cash to pay the bills. But they really focus on the income statement, and I doing the right things today to grow the business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But as startups, we have a problem. And the problem is, we don't have enough cash and cash is to a business like oxygen is to a scuba diver. If you're without it for more than 2 min you are dead.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So we're gonna focus a lot on the statement of cash flows. Because we're really concerned about cash in these early stage businesses. And I think that will resonate with you. But I want you to understand that as the business matures, the income statement becomes more and more valuable because it's a record of. Are you doing the right things today so that you will have the right amount of cash tomorrow?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so we got the 3 statements. One other thing. I there's this a famous quote that I use, that I to emphasize differences, profit as a matter of opinion, but cash, as a matter of fact. So there is some subjective stuff that can happen on the income statement. So we talked about depreciation. If I buy a new computer for $3,000.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I may have one account. Who says I'm gonna just expense that whole cost in this year, so I'll write off $3,000 of expense. I paid 3.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: My cash flow, my income statement match another. One might say, well, that has a useful life for 3 years. I'm going to depreciate it over 3 years. So even though you paid 3,000 in cash this year, I'm only going to expense 1,000 this year on your income statement.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'll expense 1,000 next year, and I'll expense 1,000 the third year. and a third account may say I'll do it over 5 years.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The point is that if I have 3 accountants, do my books for math venture partners, I'm going to get 3 different answers for the income statement. That'll be directionally similar, but they will be subtly different, but all 3 of them will exactly match to the penny on my statement of cash flow, because that's the number on the bottom of the bank statement. There is no room for interpretation.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and you know people think of venture investors as these huge risk takers right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I always say that a good
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: venture investor is good at mitigating risk in an inherently risky environment or said differently.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: there's only one reason investors are going to give you cash. That's because they expect to get more in return while minimizing their risk.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And this is when I'll tell you the first year payroll story. True story. So we're raising money for sure. Payroll is our series A. We're raising 8 million dollars.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I had a shtick that I did. I had
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: my investor deck, and when I got a got in front of a Vc. I had my investor deck, and when I got to like Slide 12 or whatever it was. It was a high, level set of projections, 5 years, like 6 or 7 rows, cash and margin, and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know, marketing cost of goods sold, etc.,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and that was when I baited the hook.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and inevitably I would get them to say, Well, where did that number come from? Tell me more about your unit economics. Tell me more about this, and I would jump to a slide I had in the back of the deck and the appendix. It would have a little more detail. And that's when I set the hook. And I said this came from my detailed financial model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and inevitably they all would say, Oh, great! Send me the model! And I knew the hook was set.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then I dug it in deeper, and I said, No.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I didn't say quite like that. But what I did say is, I said, I'll pick on Craig is I? Said Craig. You know I would love to share the model with you. But first
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I want to sit down with you and one of your associates for 90 min, review the model, and then I'll leave you a copy.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and Craig thinks he's really good with excel. And Craig says, No, no, just email me the model. I'm really good with Excel. And I'd say, no, no, Craig, is Tuesday better? Would you prefer next Thursday? Let me know which works better for you, and I would hold the hostage. Hold the deck.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Sorry I would hold the model hostage in order to get the next meeting.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I did it for 2 reasons. One is that I didn't want to send them a bunch of numbers
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and confuse them. The goal of the model is to communicate clearly how my business works.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and inevitably, if I send them a spreadsheet that has 27 tabs, and if they are going to get confused, frustrating, to be swearing at me. And 2 is that fundraising is about building relationships. They invest in people they like, and the more time I could spend with them, the deeper our relationship will be.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The punchline is that every Vc. That sat down with me and went through the model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and most of them went way longer than 90 min.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I then shared the model with, and I then got an offer to invest. Every single one wanted to invest, and it now became our choice
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: as to whose money we took, and we didn't take all of it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: going through this process helped me raise money in a meaningful way. Literally, I was batting a thousand every single. I'll say one more time. Every single investor went through the sure payroll model
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: made us an offer to invest, and then it was our choice who we took the money from. Now there was some selection bias. They wouldn't have invested 90 min if they weren't serious.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so not every investor I met ever wanted to invest, but the ones who went through the model. Did this stuff works. This is when I got real religion about it. Started preaching about it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I see
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: thousands. I am not kidding thousands of sets of projections or models each year between doing this talk and and the stuff that comes in from from
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: math venture partners? What do you think Troy looks at first to determine? Is this company worth my digging into and thinking about an investment? What's the thing that I look at first.
Reece Franklin: if they're honest.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, I don't know if they're honest yet, but I do put that at the top of the list. I will not invest in somebody if I'm suspicious.
andrew: Steven. A cashless
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: now.
Clay Curran: like just 5 year revenue opportunity, size.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Thank you. Revenue. The opportunity says revenue. Here's the thing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Revenue is the most difficult to predict. It's the most difficult to control, and it's the reason most businesses fail. Yet
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I can tell you, cause I did this in my first models, and most of you, almost all of you did it in these models you sent me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm an entrepreneur, because I want to be in control of my own destiny.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And it is really seductive to model out the things I can control. How many employees am I gonna have? How much am I gonna pay them? How much is healthcare gonna cost? What kind of computer am I gonna buy them? What does the server cost? What's aws cost? I can spend all day long in there, and that's my happy place.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But when someone says, What's your revenue gonna be in 18 months, I don't know. That's uncomfortable. That's hard to control. It's hard to predict, so I don't spend any time there. I don't like being in the uncomfortable
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: entrepreneurs you've got to get comfortable with uncomfortable.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you control your revenue, if you understand where your revenue comes from and what levers you have to drive your revenue. The rest of this does not matter
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: now. Don't get me wrong. I'm a cheap bastard. I don't look. I'm wearing a shirt from what 2,003 it's 2,004, so it's almost 20 years old. I don't buy new clothes. I get swag. See, Brad, now you got to give me some swag for doing this. I'm a cheap bastard.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I don't want you going out and spending a ton of money on stuff that doesn't matter, but my point is, no matter how much you spend or don't spend. If you don't have revenue, you're dead.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you control your revenue, you control your destiny. We you should be spending 95% of your time on the financial model, on the revenue equation. on the revenue side of the model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The rest of this talk. All we're going to talk about is revenue. We're not going to talk about expenses unless they're expenses that get us more revenue. Keep me honest. Call me out if I do it differently.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But that's what matters. And all of your effort has to go into what controls the revenue. Anybody anybody can write down how many employees they have, and how much they paid them that that adds no value.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the revenue side of the equation. So let's walk through a model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, I'm not going to do to you guys what most of you? Not all. but probably 2 thirds of you did. To me this is a learning opportunity. It's a safe space. right? But two-thirds of you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: brassed for a model, and you sent me a model. You sent me a bunch of numbers and say, Troy, what do you think of my model
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: without even thinking about telling me what your business is? I don't even know if you're B to B or B to C, hopefully, you are appropriately embarrassed right now.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so that you won't do this again. Now it's unusual for someone to ask you for a model who doesn't know what your business is.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's not the use case I'm trying to get you to think about. I'm trying to get you to think about. Every time you communicate. You have to be a great communicator, to be a great leader and a great entrepreneur, and you are constantly communicating with investors with customers, with employees, and you have to think of the context. What do they know? What don't they know
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in hindsight? Are you a little embarrassed that you didn't tell me what your business was, and you just sent me a model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I see some nods hopefully you are, and hopefully you learned a very valuable lesson at no expense.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So alright, I'm gonna tell you what my business does. I created a fictitious company. This company's is something I put together to try to mimic a lot of modern Internet companies. And it's my poor attempted humor. You'll know why I'm not a comedian now. I created a fictitious company called Dollar Cave Club. Everything you need to make your man Cave.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Here's the description. Give me a physical thumbs up when you're done reading it and I, and then we'll move on.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. I see a bunch of thumbs up. I think we're about there alright. So let's talk about Dollar Cave club some things we know. What's their primary form of making money.
Reece Franklin: selling a subscription.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How much?
Farhan: $2030, you know?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2999. Yeah. Do they keep their customers forever.
Darren Schaeffer: No.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What happens?
Chad Wilson: Or prison chair?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 4% churn per.
Darren Schaeffer: They didn't tell us. No.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, yes, they did per per month. Thank you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: how do they acquire customers?
Farhan: Seo.
Oladiran Johnson: yeah, how else?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Facebook, yeah. And do they have other ways of making money?
iPhone (2): Yeah. Sales
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: add on sales. And what else
andrew: direct purchases through the site.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: People also advertise on their website
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: advertising awesome. I think we got it covered. So just to be clear, bullet point number 3
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is Dollar Cave Club, spending time and money to get customers to come to its site. Bullet point number 5 is. Well, I've got all these people on my site who want to buy stuff.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and Nike and Red Bull wanna put their logos on my site and pay me money for that. And it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna be borrowing brand from them. I'm gonna look cool, cause I'm hanging out with cool kids, and it doesn't take away from my sales because they don't sell things that are competitive to me. This is awesome. I'm gonna get additional revenue from advertising. So bullet point 3
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: dollar cave Club spending money and time bullet point 5 is Dollar Cave club collecting money. We're gonna look at the assumption tab. We're gonna dive in and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: start looking at the model itself.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. So this is the actual model for Dollar Cave Club.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: They just a little note. Everything in blue is an assumption, and that's where you should type something in.
Reece Franklin: Is there any way you could increase the zoom?
Lilliana Robinson: No, because we're going to you'll see in a second. We're gonna have way, more data on this, on the slide, so I can't. It needs to be the sites to see everything. Hopefully. You guys can increase your zoom if you click view options in the top of your screen. Anyone?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, I'm guessing. That was from the guy who's on an iphone.
Lilliana Robinson: Nope, no, on a team. But that's okay. All of you can change your own zoom under view options. Yeah, it should be big enough. I mean, I have a pretty big font here on my screen, you should be able to see it in a pretty big font.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: roll with me for a second. So the blue is these are inputs or assumptions. And every other formula that is black is based on these. And in the black formulas you don't ever put numbers, so many of you, some of you who did things like a month over month growth rate would key in the month over month growth rate in the actual formula, which is a double mistake. One is, we don't have month over month growth rates and 2 is, if we did have something like that, we put it as an assumption, so you can change it in one place.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then it will change for everybody, and you don't have to go in and edit cells. But anyway, so what's this represent
Reece Franklin: price at the subscription?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, how much I'm charging for the subscription, the 2999 Z. Assumption, what about this one. What's this? Represent?
Darren Schaeffer: Estimated? We lose everything
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: customers we lose every month. I could go on, I mean, I've got a lot of assumptions here. I could go on and walk through all these. I'm not going to do that right now. I did something, though, that some of you may not know you could do.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: which is, I have 2 windows open into the same file.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You can have as many windows open in the file you want. You can pay window new window, and I'm going to get a third one. It pops up on my other screen, so I'll drag it over here as the third one, and to prove to you that these are the same file.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If I could spell Chicago rocks
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you'll see that it pops up in all 3. It is one file. They're just 3 views into it. Now I don't need 3. I'm going to close this extra one, but I do need 2, and it's not because I want you seeing double.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's because I don't have to be in the same tab in both windows.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So on the right window, which is bigger unless I didn't divide in half. I'm gonna go to the annual cash flow.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And now you're gonna see why I don't have real room to. I can make this 1 one hair bigger.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: There, I may. Yeah, I can make it 2 hairs bigger. Okay, so and now you can see that I have my assumptions tab over here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I have the same spreadsheet, but I have my cash flow tab on the right. This is why couldn't make the font bigger. Sorry. So now I want you to focus on this 5. But let me just explain. Notice, there's no inputs on the cash flow, tab, because it's all formulaic. Obviously, this is year 120-23-2345 years. And I want you to focus on this half a million dollars in the bottom right hand corner.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's how much cash I will have at the end of 5 years
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: with this set of assumptions in this model. Okay, that's kind of cool. So if this model works, when I change something on the left. it should all recalculate on the right. Correct?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, alright. So now, we're not gonna put the next question up quite yet, but I want you to prep for it. This is question number 3. We're gonna wait a second till I describe it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: To test this. What I'm going to do is I'm going to increase my price, let's say, from nominally 30 bucks to nominally 40 bucks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'll go from 2999 to 39, 99. So I went up 33%.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And the question I have for you is, how much is my cash gonna go up at the end of 5 years? If I increase my price by 33%,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: let's throw up the quiz the poll. And let's see what you guys think.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright, you got to answer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You have 3 choices. It won't go up at all. Less than 33, exactly 33, or more than 33. And don't overthink it. I'll give.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I was, gonna say, 5, 4. Get those answers in 3, 2, one. Let's send the poll. Let's see what you got. All right. Very typical.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Half to 2 thirds typically chose less than 33, some of you said exactly 33, and about a little less than a third said, more than 33.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Let's see what happens.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All I'm gonna do is I'm gonna type in here, 39 99 and my 500,000 in the bottom right hand corner goes to 1.2 million. That's about
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 140%. That's a 700,000 gain on a denominator of 500,000. My spreadsheet has to be broken right?
Darren Schaeffer: No.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How could I collect 33% more cash.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but end up with a hundred 40% more cash at the end.
Chad Wilson: Cause you're not spending anything extra now on customer acquisition. So you're basically pulling in, you know, new users. And for cheaper you're
Chad Wilson: you're not advertising, or you're not doing your costs haven't gone up at all.
Darren Schaeffer: Your cost of goods sold didn't change. So all of the extra money you added on was pure revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So and I'll be really specific. So Darren's close. We're going to use the term revenue to main top line, and I think you mean pure gross profit.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But my cost of goods sold did go up, because what I did was I said, Here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna have a margin on my subscriptions of 25. It's not fair to charge the customers more and not put better stuff in it, so I increased the value when I increase the price by 33 I increase the cost of good sold by 33.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now let's do a little simple math one, Mike. when my box cost 2999. Let's do it now where it is 39, 99, when my box costs 40 bucks. How much profit did I make on each box at 25?
$10,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: $10? And when my price was 2999, how much profit did I make on each box
Darren Schaeffer: less than that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What's 25% of 30 bucks? This is not higher math.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 7, $57 and 50 cents. So, Darren great observation. I did increase the cost of goods sold, but I still made more profit on each box. $2 and 50 cents, not $10 more
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: fair.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Anybody else want to weigh in here
Ben Ayd: CEO,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and we charge them 39, 99 instead of 2999. Now I will tell you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I deceived you. I did not lie. Someone actually brought that up. Truthfulness. I never lie.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I did try to get you to think about this the wrong way. I tried to get you to think about it, that a percentage increase in price would lead to a similar percentage increase in cash.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You see, I think it was Chad who had was on the right track here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Don't think about it that way. Think about it that when I increase the price my gross profit
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the money that I get to keep after I've paid for the box, the stuff in the box, the shipping.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: my gross profit went from 7 50 to $10.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So every bit of those $2 and 50 cents just went straight into the bank account.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So what you really should have asked is, how many boxes did you sell Troy?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Because if you knew how many boxes you sold. and you knew that you made $2 and 50 cents extra that went straight into the bank account. You'd figure out how much the bank account would go up in dollars.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: not percentage dollars. It turns out that it's about 280,000 boxes, because 280,000 times 250 is $700,000. I'm gonna prove it to you a little bit of a different way.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So what I'm gonna do is we're back to the base case of 500,000. I'm gonna just change how much money I raised in my second raise artificially
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to make it so that I basically have 0 money at the end of 5 years.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So now, if I change my price from 2999 to 39, 99, how much is my cash gonna go up? Increase price by 33%. How much is cash gonna go up last time went up by 140%.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How much is it going to go up this time? Kevin's nodding. How much, Kevin?
Kevin Corbett: It'll be the same dollar amount as it went up previously.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Exactly $700,000. Watch
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: boom!
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You see that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So the right answer is that the amount cash goes up. It's not a percentage of the denominator, not a percentage of cash. It is the raw number. How many boxes did you sell times. How much gross profit did you increase on each box? 700,000 in this case?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Any questions about this?
Reece Franklin: I have a question with kind of us mostly on the assumptions on the financial model. Is there? What's a good balance to strike between the numbers playing together? And it being easy easy for people to look at and understand without like documentation. So, for example, we, we have different numbers that are linked in different assumptions.
Reece Franklin: Which might
Reece Franklin: like, how do you kind of figure out how granular to get with that specific model?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So great question. And I actually have a slide for it later.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I'm not. Gonna I'm gonna practice what I preach, though, which is when someone asks you a question, especially an investor.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The worst thing you can do is say, Oh, hold on! That's 5 slides from now. Because if I do that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: then Reese isn't gonna think about anything I'm talking about until he hears the answer to his question that's burning in his head. So I'm forced. Now. Good! Thank you, Reese, to answer his question.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and the the way I like to answer. This is, or the way I like to do this is financial models get more and more granular and more and more complicated over time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If we're in person. I would do this on the whiteboard. I'm actually creating a new course on financial modeling where I start with. It's for a coffee shop. My business is going to be ultimately will be an Internet coffee shop Internet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: got a coffee shop with an Internet component subscription for beans that gets sent to you every month. I have all the recurring revenue stuff just like Dollar Cave Club.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But the way it starts is, hey? I think I got a better recipe for coffee. I'm gonna go sell some coffee. I'm gonna make it at my house with my special recipe. I'm gonna bring it in a big thermos, and I'm gonna bring it out on the street, and I'm gonna just start serving coffee. I could get $2 and 50 cents and the the coffee and the cup cost me a buck, so I make a buck 50. How many do I have to sell
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to pay the rent?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I want to make 5 grand a month. I do some math, and it whatever comes out to be 3,000 cups that's like 100 cups of coffee a day. Can I sell 100 cups of coffee a day while if I'm on a busy street Michigan Avenue, maybe and I'm gonna go test it. And literally, my whole financial model is like 4 numbers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: $2 and 50 cents cost a good sold, $1 profit dollar 50 times 3,000 gets me to. You know how much profit, but that's my whole model. And then the next chapter of the book is that the
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Health Department comes by and says, Oh, you can't sell coffee on the street without a license. You need a license. I got all these other expenses in order to do that. I may. I need more volume. So instead of selling on the street, I'm gonna go sell in the lobby of apartment buildings. And so I'm gonna have like 5 stations in the in these high Rise apartment buildings. They're gonna be self-service. And now I gotta build a little more complicated model
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because I got account for that stuff. And I'm not talking about one month. I got like 6 month contracts with these guys. So over 6 months, I gotta buy some equipment.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What's that look like.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Then I realized the real opportunities to open a store. But if I open a store I gotta sign a 5 year lease, and I got a 5 year model, and I gotta have employees, and I gotta have. And it keeps getting more complicated. And then people like my coffee and they move out of town. They wanna order it. So I start selling subscription business. And I got us a whole subscription business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I only made the financial model as complicated as I needed
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: for the current state of the business. So one of the mistakes entrepreneurs make is they'll build all this complexity in too early, and it's too complicated of a beast. It's sort of like
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I know I live in Evanston. I'm looking out at my front lawn. My front lawn is like smaller than my living room. It's like 20 feet by 10. It's this tiny little postage stamp of grass. Imagine if I went out and said, I want the best lawn mower I can get, and I get the lawn mower they use to cut
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: golf courses. and I tried to use it on my front lawn.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's gonna be a disaster right? I can't navigate around that one tree. I can't like
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that would be like building too big a financial model for your business today. Right? You want the appropriate Si size and meet sledgehammer. Exactly. You want the appropriate size model for the stage of your business, so I'll get back to that more later.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So thank you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But it's a great question. But there is another piece in here I'm going to go back to. I don't want to screw this up. I'll go back to where we were.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yup, and I'll go back to my base. Case was 2999.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now we're at the base case. Now, it's not fair for me to change my price and not expect any ramifications, so I'll go to 39, 99 a bunch of stuff is gonna happen. It's gonna be more expensive to acquire customers. Customers are gonna quit sooner because they're not happy. They're spending more money. I'm gonna put my customer service might be more expensive. I'm gonna put all this stuff
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I'm gonna use churn as a proxy.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And the churn, as approximate, said, well, you know what
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: if I charge 33% more, my churn is going to go up by about a third? Right? So what do I have to type in here to make my churn go up a third
Reece Franklin: 5.2 5.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You're close
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 5.3 3. Yes.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so now, just with a quick show of hands. Do you think I'm gonna be better off than the base case of 500,000, or worse off than the base case of 500,000 when I hit enter here. How many people think I'll be better off
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and 500,000! How many people think I'll be worse off.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Seems kind of even people aren't sure.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's probably the right answer, right? This is hard. It's really hard. I don't know that you. I don't think there's a human on the planet that could project the implic. The actual implication of this turn number into 5 years. That's 60 months worth of churn. It's compounding.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have fought the battle. That is the beast of churn at your payroll. I can tell you more about that later. But churn is a bear. I thought it was going to be down, I thought, for sure I'm going to be worse off. It turns out.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm an 8 66 instead of 500. I'm up 360 on a base of 500. That's like 72.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What if churn goes to 6% when I charge more
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm still better. What if it goes to 7%? I'm only a little bit better.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 5, 47 instead of 500. What if it goes to 8%.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oof. Now, I'm in the hole. Okay? So 8% is no good.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I've done this a time or 2. I know that the 7.2 5 is about break. Even
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so, what this says is that if I raise price to 39 99, and I can keep churn under 7.2 5%. I'm not better on cash. If it's above 7.2 5%, I'm more sun cash.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What did I just do?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What's the thing you all want to do with your business that I just did
iPhone (2): project predict the future good. You looked into your crystal ball.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I didn't project the future. But you're close. Are you looking for the break, even point essentially. And you want to count that
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I did. But the thing that we talked about earlier. That I did is I took my business on a virtual test drive. so the spreadsheet
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: tells me that if I raise price to 39 99, and churn is below 7.2 5. It is a net positive for me
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: if I raise it to 39 99, and it's above 7.2 5. It's in that negative. Now, I need to take that to the real world because the spreadsheet doesn't predict the real world.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I can take that to the real world. Do an Ab. Test. I got one set of customers that are 2999 that I know are measuring at 4. I look at my other cohort at 39, 99, I measure, and whatever number it is, I type it in there, and I can see the future based on that real world test. I took my business on a test drive
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and you will notice that my test drive has specific, numeric, objective results.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I hate when entrepreneurs come to me and they say, Well, I've got a new Mvp. I'm really excited. Can I show it to you? I'm like cool. What are we testing for? Like, I want to see how people like my website.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Really. I want to see how people like it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, if you want to go down that path. You could say, I currently have an Mps score of 30, and I made a bunch of changes. We're trying to get the Mps score above 40. Now we at least have something that's specific, numeric and objective, right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Every test you run you should have a definition of success or failure before you start the test.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So let's keep moving on. I'm going to go back to the base case.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now. this section. What's this section all about
andrew: the ad revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, so about add revenue. So for those of you who have never sold ads or bought ads, you might be confused by this phrase, Cpm. Someone who has never bought or sold ads
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: doesn't know what Cpm is. Take a wild guess. What does Cpm. Mean?
andrew: Cost per house for Millie?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, who said that? Who said it cost Per Milly
Farhan: here?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right. So so did you know that? Or did you just guess that
Farhan: II knew it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, okay, you knew it. Cheater. Yeah. People get confused. We call it cost per 1,000 here in the Us. But it really is Co. Cost per Milly Mill being from the Romance Languages, French, Spanish, or the Roman numeral M.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I left this in here so that some of you could appreciate how confusing acronyms are. If you've never seen that phrase before, this would be very confusing and difficult to read. Please don't put a lot of acronyms in your models. The goal is for the person reading it to understand it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right anyway. So Liliana, we're gonna get ready for the fourth question. So remember? Or, Brad, we're going to get ready for the fourth question. Last time we increased our price by a third
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: gone up by 140%.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How much are we gonna go up by? If we increase our price, we charge our advertisers by a third, let's throw the poll up and see what people think
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 0 less than 33, 33, more than 33.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You got to answer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 5, 4, 3,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2, one.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Let's see.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: hop pretty evenly split, although more of you thought less than 33 than more than 33. That's interesting. Last time it went up by 140. Why would more than half of you think it. It went up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: less than 33 this time.
Reece Franklin: I think I'm more confused with the wording there where it's the Max charged. We don't know how many are going to be hitting that maximum range.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, yeah, it's not good wording, thank you. Good! Call out I. What I was trying to do is set it up so that the price I charge grew over a period of time ramped up, and it ramped up by 10 month over month, and it hit a maximum of a dollar 50 cpm. Because day one. I don't have enough. I don't have enough page views that I can command a premium. So sort of raising my price, and that's where it was. But let's take a look. So instead of a dollar 50, what do I have to type in to raise it by a third
Nat Froikin: $2. Yeah, see, you guys are good at math.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and it barely moved. It went from 508 to 5, 20. That's like
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: $12,000 over 5 years. That's $2,400 a year. You couldn't hire like a part time high school student to sell ads for that price.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: There is nothing I'm here to tell you. I've done this. There's nothing you can do to this section that is going to move the needle. We're going to make this. Every page view is an opportunity to put a red bull logo up instead of 3 and a half. It's 4 page views. It still didn't move.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Instead of $2. What if it went to $3? It still barely moved. There's nothing you can do to this section that's going to move it. And that is awesome.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Why is that awesome.
Darren Schaeffer: you know, to not focus on that lever?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Exactly, Darren. what this means is
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that you can say no, and saying no in a startup is one of the most powerful things you can say. So you can say no to this whole section. If this were my business, these would all be zeros.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and when you say no to one thing, you close the door to it. It allows you to open the door to something more valuable.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so I'm sure we could find something more valuable to spend our. We have only 2 valuable resources, time and money to spend our time and money on
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: than advertising.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I'm going to go back to the base case just so that we don't confuse things. I'm not going to actually make it be 0, because I want to come back to this 508.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right. How about this stuff? What's this section for
andrew: working?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How much money I'm spending to get more customers? So if I spend more money, my expenses are clearly going to go up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because I'm spending more money. Is it gonna be a net positive for me, or a net negative for me to spend more money in advertising.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What is the tool that we use when we think about how much we spend for to get a customer, how long they're with us, how much revenue they bring in margins, what they're worth at the end. What do we call that when we do it? One customer at a time to kind of try to understand the life cycle
Reece Franklin: lifetime value
Farhan: as practices guilty.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I heard lots of things. Ltv. Is part of it. Cac. Is part of it. But what do we call the whole package? When we look at one customer at a time?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Nice unit economics. I got a tab for that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Let's jump up to the in an economics tab. So here's the unit economics. Tab the 2999 obviously comes in from the price. I'll change my price just to prove it. When I hit enter it becomes 55. You can see that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So you know where that came from. We already talked about the contribution margin. The 7 50 should make sense. It's 25% of the of the 2999. Where's this come from? Average lifetime of a subscriber? 25 months.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: My turn's 4%, not 25. Where'd that come from?
Ben Ayd: One divided by point 0 4
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is
Ben Ayd: 25.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, so
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: he's correct. So let's I'll try to illustrate it for you a little better. If we had 100% churn. The average customer is going to stay one month and leave.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If we had 50% churn. How long is the average customer going to stay
Nat Froikin: 2,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2 months. 33% churn? 3 months
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: turns out, some of you may find it easier to think that churn times lifetime. SQL. 100. So if I turn a third, a third, a third 3 months, they're all gone.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It doesn't mathematically work that way, but it averages to it. Roll with me. The other way. To think about it is what Ben said, which is one over 33 is 3,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: one, over 50% is 2. So one over 4
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is 25.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners:  Now, lifetime contribution, margin of subscription. Now, you guys all, said Ltv.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I spelled this out with extra words
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because I wanted to make the point that the Ltv. This is a mistake. A lot of entrepreneurs make is not 25 months times 2999. That would be $750. That is the lifetime revenue. That's how much I bill them, but I only get to keep 25% of it right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So the value to me is the lifetime contribution margin. And you'll notice that I multiplied the 25 months times my contribution margin, not times my revenue
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in a Saas business where you're at 90% margin, it may not matter so much. but in a business like this there is a big difference between an Ltv. Of 187 and an Ltv. Of 750,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and if you think your Ltv. Is 7, 50, because that's how much you charge your customer, and you're willing to pay 650 to acquire that customer. You're going to be in the whole
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: cause. You're gonna pay 6 50 to acquire them, and then you have to pay a bunch of stuff to fill the box and fill, and you're gonna be out $500 for every customer you get. You will lose $500 on every customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So you want the lifetime value to be the contribution margin, and I put it in bold so that you won't forget it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This section is about those add-ons. Just roll with me. There's another 18 bucks in profit contribution, Marge. So it means that the average customers were 20585,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: totally cool. Now down here I did some math based on conversion rate. So like this is Facebook. So if I change Facebook's conversion rate from one to 12, my, you can see, my cat goes way down like these are connected. Obviously. So on Facebook, what happens is, basically, I pay 185, and I get 205 back.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Is that a good deal? Spend 1, 85 get 2. 5.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Who thinks it's a good deal who wants to? I'll tell you what? Hey? Here's the deal. I will hunt you down. All right, Andrew. I'm gonna I'm gonna get you. So, Andrew, I will hunt you down. You give me 185 bucks, and I'll give you back 205. You want that deal
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: awesome.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We shake hands virtually, and I didn't see the shake
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: awesome. Everybody witnessed that. So here's the deal, Andrew. Today you give me 185. And here's how I'm gonna pay you back your 205 a month from now I'm going to give you $7 and 50 cents.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and a month later I'm gonna give you another $7 and 50 cents and a month after that, and it's gonna take 22 and a half months till you have your 1 85 back. And then, after a total of 25 months. When we quit.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you're going to have gotten a hundred 11% of your money back or 2. 5. Do you still think it's a good deal?
andrew: No.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you could actually put your 185 in a bank. That's Fdi insured Fdic. Insured and get the same 5 interest rate, probably, as you would dealing with a
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know, a shady character like me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so it's not a very good deal
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in the venture world as an investor
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: for recurring revenue businesses. What do you think I'm looking for in this lifetime? Value to customer acquisition cost Ltv to Cac
Chad Wilson: something like 3 times.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, if I don't know anything else about the business, I want to see 3 X, and I want my money faster. I want to get my first dollar within the first 12 months if I can.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you have a recurring revenue business
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: where you get the dollar you invested back in 12 months, and you get 2 more dollars. So lifetime value to cack of over 3,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you will have no problem raising money in any economy. and the reason for that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Is it. What happens if you can picture this? I should probably do a slide for this. But anyway, if I spend a dollar, and 12 months later I get another dollar. I don't keep it. I go get another customer. I now have 2 customers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and 12 months later I get a dollar from each of them, and I go get
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2 more customers. So I now have 4 customers, and 12 months later I get a dollar from all 4 of them, and I have 8 customers, so I turned $1 of customer acquisition
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: into 8 customers at the end of 3 years.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and those customers are all giving me a dollar a year by definition, because it cost me a dollar. I got Doll back. So that's what causes the exponential growth.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now. that was a rule of thumb sure payroll which
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: some of you may have heard of. I don't know other than for me, but we were the first Internet Payroll Company. We had a successful exit sold for over 100 million dollars, which was a lot of money back then. Well, over 10 years ago, one of the biggest exits in Chicago at the time. Now it seems like a pittance. But anyway, we made our investors 8 times their money. They were happy.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It actually took us about 1517 months to get paid back. So how? Why would investors invest if it's a 17 month payback Troy just told man need a 12 month payback.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, that's because our Ltv. To Cac wasn't wasn't 3. It was actually closer to 7.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So investors are willing to wait a little bit longer to get that first dollar back, because there were so many more dollars coming.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and on the other side of the continuum one of my favorite investments I made as an investor at math is a company where the Ltv. To Cac. Is only 2 and a half.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but they get that first dollar back in 6 months. So if you do my math, after 6 months you get the dollar back, you go get another customer at 12 months you go get another customer.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, sorry you each go get you have 4, and at 18 months those 4 get another custom. You now have 8 customers in 18 months, instead of waiting 3 years to get your 8 customers. So it grows much more quickly.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So 3 years, 12 months is a rule of thumb. But it is not an absolute Google is looking better. The money I spent on Google because I get my money back not quite in 12 months but 13. I don't get threex, but I get almost twox. Clearly, I would spend more money on Google than on Facebook until I could get those conversion rates up.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Notice, I'm tracking by channel. As your business gets most more sophisticated, you may end up tracking the Ltev by channel. It turns out that the lifetime subscriber of a Go Google customer may be different than the lifetime of a Facebook subscriber
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: depending on your business right? I was using this to highlight that you should have someone had asked me the question
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in the pre work about should you be granular and doing it by channel. This is an example of doing it by channel, and you'll notice that I have the, you know. Here's the conversion rate by channel, so they have different conversion rates to subscribers and e-commerce. All right.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The whole reason went down this.
Christal Hector: Yes, quick question here, when we're looking at customer cost of acquisition. If you're still a say things that don't scale phase where it's mainly like door to door. You know, it's mostly time that you're trading rather than actual money to acquire customers.
Christal Hector: How do you? You know input that into a model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: awesome question. So I had to deal with this with your payroll. So when we started your payroll. We first thought it was going to be direct marketing. It turned out that didn't work. We sent out a bunch of emails and a bunch of physical mails, and I could talk for hours on that. And then we said, Well, let's try direct sales, actually calling the equivalent of going door to door, but we're doing it on the telephone.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so what we did initially was. I was the salesperson now. I only had about 20 HA week to put into sales because I had to work 40, 60 HA week doing other stuff.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so I was a salesperson, and I was to your point investing time. But what I did was, I saw that I could sell about 10 customers a month
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: with my 20 HA week. so I said, All right? Well, let's extrapolate. I'm probably better at closing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: then a salesperson I'm gonna hire
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because they don't know the system as well. They're not as passionate, whatever.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I'm certainly worse at cold calling than a salesperson I could hire. So I said, those 2 things will wash out.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so I think a salesperson should be able to close 20 a month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so then, in my model, I modeled out how many salespeople I would have, what the salespeople would cost, what the Commission would be.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I attributed each salesperson to getting 20 new deals a month. Now it turns out that number was wrong. Lots of numbers were wrong. It turned out the right number at scale was about 15,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but I was close, and that allowed me to build a model. And then, when I started gathering data on what actual salespeople did. I could tweak that 20 to be 15 and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: see the implications of it and realize, oh, we still have a good business.
Christal Hector: Does that make sense? Yeah. So it's like the salary for that. Salesperson is the proxy Yup salary plus commission plus taxes plot, like, when you calculate, Cac, you got to calculate all of the things you spent money on to acquire customers. But if you weren't acquiring customers you wouldn't be spending money on
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: awesome. Thank you. So. But yeah, it's a great question, and that, you know. And I I'll say this later. But the only thing I know for sure about every model I've ever created, and every model I've ever looked at is the wrong.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, hopefully, they're not very. They're not that wrong. And as you get as you operate and move further along the trajectory, they're going to be less and less wrong.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But they're wrong. And that's okay. What's important is that you get the right structure for the model. So that when you get updated data and you put the right assumptions in it reflects
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the it gets more and more accurate. Don't worry so much about the assumptions being right because they're gonna change
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 100%. They're gonna change. Don't worry over that. And the other thing I meant to say earlier. The reason I love the model so much
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is it's like a cheat code for your business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Here's the deal. Let's say we had sheer payroll, and we're cruising along, and we know that we're going to grow by 20 year over year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We can scale to that we'll have the right number of servers, the right number of customer service people. We can do well at 20 growth a year. Let's say we know we're going to scale at 200% year over year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We're gonna hire a bunch more customer service people. We're gonna a bunch more servers. But we can scale to that
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: where we get screwed is if we think we're going to get 200%, and we get 20%. Oh, boy. by the way. We're also in trouble. If we think we're gonna get 20% and we get 200%,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: we now have people who can't get customer service. We now have not enough servers. We're too slow. Things aren't working. You've all experienced that, too. If you knew in your business exactly how you were going to grow next year. You could plan for it and be successful.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And the model does that for you if you use it properly. The model is a dynamic tool.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I pardon the Apollo the analogy I've been using, but I need. I need a better one, but it's like a heat seeking missile.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and that you fire it at your target, and as your target moves, the model moves right, it doesn't just keep on the trajectory you initially put it at. It follows the the target. And so if you are updating your model every month, like I'm gonna tell you how to do.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Your model is like that heat seeking missile, and it's gonna constantly 0 in on the right solution. And that is the most valuable thing you can have as a business operator is to know what tomorrow looks like, because you can plan for that
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: where you get in trouble is when tomorrow happens, and it's a surprise.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is part of the reason. Covid, initially, was a bad surprise for most businesses. And then, all of sudden, for some business was a huge surprise. But it it was crazy during that time period, because of all the surprises you don't like surprises in business. The model will keep you out of surprises.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right. We went down this rabbit hole of unit economics because we're trying to decide. Should we spend more money on advertising or not? That was my initial question to you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm going to go back to the cash flow and we're gonna just try it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So if instead of 10,000, I spend 20,000, my 500 k. Becomes 1.1 million more than doubled. That's cool. Well, if sum is good, more is always better. Right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 40,000. Now it's 2.3 million. and this is where I can tell who's paying attention.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What do you see?
Craig Silver: We died in the first year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Exactly. We don't live to see 2.3 million. Because, look what's happened.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: we are underwater. You can't tell from this report, but for 45 days you are a scuba diver, underwater with no oxygen for 45 days. You are dead cold, dead?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, I really like this 2.3 million. It's way better than 500,000. How do I get past the 1.3 at the 130,000 that I'm in the hole
Farhan: race.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Sure, I'm raising a million bucks already. Why not just raise. I'm not gonna raise $1,000,131, 802 like, well, I'll raise a million and a half
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right. all right. So, Brad. let's get ready with Question 5. Don't put it up yet. but I'm going to give you all an option. This is your business, Dollar Cave Club. You can keep the original deal.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Keep all your original equity, the 10,000 a month spend, or
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you can sell 50% more of the company in the first raise and a half instead of a million. But that's going to enable you to spend 40,000 a month in marketing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Which do you want to do? Let's throw up the question. Do you want to keep all your equity?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Or do you want to sell 50% more of the business in the first round, but be able to spend 40 K. In advertising.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and don't overthink it. We'll give you 5, 4,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 3,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 2, one.
and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and very predictably.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you guys, two-thirds want to keep your equity, and one third roughly and one-third wants to wants to go big. Well, let's take a look
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: at what this is good, what the impacts gonna be.
So I know this will shock you. But I have a way to figure this out. Let's go back to the base case.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: There's our 500,000. This is the base case, and I created a tab called charts.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then the Chab call charts. I have first one, which is expenses in gray revenue and green. You'll see that our revenue starts to exceed our expenses at month 53.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The area between these 2 is profits. The area between these 2, when they're inverted is loss.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You can see my cash. I start out with a million bucks. I get pretty close to 0. I raise 2 and a half. I get pretty close to 0, and then at month 53, my cash starts growing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I created a graph for founders. Equity value. I use some assumptions down here. I use like a 5 x multiple on on enter
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: enterprise value 5 times the revenue to get the enterprise value. But you could tweak that if you want. But anyway, in this model it comes out to be about 13 million. So the founders have 13 million bucks at the end of 5 years if they sell for the expected sale price.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, what's going to happen when I increase my spend to $40,000 a month. What's going to happen to my expenses and revenue?
Darren Schaeffer: Yeah, they're both gonna go up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: pretty dramatically. And what's going to happen to my cash in bank?
Sahan Reddy:  right? Involvement is not
Darren Schaeffer: and upload it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Darren, your audio is a little flaky. Is it flaky for other people, too. Yeah, yes, yeah. There's something funky about your audio, Darren. Someone other than Darren. What's gonna happen to my cash.
Abdullah: And then it's going to go big, though.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm gonna end with more cash. So let's see, I hit enter revenue expenses go way up. There's a lot more profit in here. You can see still crossing in month 53 they cross in month 37 38
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is right where it crosses. You can see that I went negative. You gotta kind of zoom in. It doesn't look very big now, but there is like 45 days where I'm under water with no oxygen. But I got the 2 million at the end. Except I didn't live. I died.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So to fix that we're gonna sell 50% more of the business instead of 1 million. We're gonna do a million 5.
What's gonna happen to my revenue and expenses when I increase my raise
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: nothing? What's gonna happen on my cash in bank static increase. Yup! It's gonna go up.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: boom! And there we go. We see that the revenue expenses didn't move cash and bank. The whole thing floated up by 500,000. I no longer die.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and what happened to my founder's equity? It was 13 million before
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's now 28,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so there's an expression and venture. Would you rather eat an entire grape or half a watermelon?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Don't get hung up on percentages. Focus on what you keep
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: half a watermelon is a lot more fulfilling than a whole grape. Right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I'm I deceived you again. I know it's early in your techstars lifetime. But do some of you understand? Pre money, evaluation, post money, valuation.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You understand how this works? We're gonna do a quick little quick little study on this pre money. How much was raised. how much the post money is. And then I'm going to add founder percentage.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right. So
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in this case.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: what was Boom? And I wanna go that way.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And then these I want to be percentages. All right. What was the pre-money valuation in the deal?
Reece Franklin: Speak third. And
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: what was it?
Reece Franklin: Wait. So we asked 13.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That was how much the founders had in equity after 5 years. But in the first round.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I just want to point out that you guys made a decision about how much you wanted to raise without understanding the value at which you were selling.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's like saying, I want to buy that car. I'll pay or I want to buy I wanna buy a couple. I wanna buy some sugar. I'll pay an extra $500 for it. But you don't know how much you're getting
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right. You need to understand the valuation at which you're buying or selling in order to evaluate whether it's a good deal or not. In this case it happens to have been an assumption down here that I kept trying to hide as it scrolled up of 3 million dollars. So that was my assumption.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So we'll put 3 million dollars in here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What that means, oops. I went the wrong direction. I hate. When I do that
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Google sheets and excel are backwards. One. It's on the left and the right, anyway. So the pre money evaluation was 3 million. That means not that you could sell your company for 3 million, but when they do the math of how much the new
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: investors own, they use that as the basis
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: we raised, how much in the for in the default case.
Nat Froikin: a million, 1 million, right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So what would the post money valuation be?
andrew: Or a million.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, it's what the pre money valuation was, plus what was raised. So that was worth 3 million. We raised a million. It's now gonna be worth 4 million. By the way, I can always tell if somebody, when someone comes into my office and I said, Well, what are you thinking about? Valuation. And they say, Oh.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: we're selling a million dollars of the company for 25%. That's the math here. Right? They sold 1 million dollars, the company for 25%. But my response to them is, you've been watching too much shark Tank.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because that's not the language we use in the venture world in the venture world. We talk about the Pre money valve. We raised a million dollars with a pre money valuation of 3.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It gets us to a post of 4. So if this is the first round of funding
founders owned all of the company before.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and a million got added, what percentage do the founders own. Now.
Kevin Corbett: 25%
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: founders.
Kevin Corbett: Yeah. So they own 3 million of the 4 million
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: or 75% cool. Now, in the next case. when you guys wanted to sell 50% more of the company. how much did we sell arrays?
Reece Franklin: 1.5
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: cool? And what's the post money valuation this time?
Farhan: 4.5.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So how much do the founders own this time?
Chad Wilson: 67%?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I deceived you again. I didn't lie. I deceived
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you did sell 50% more of the company. But that doesn't mean you have 50% less.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So if I ask the question differently, and I said to you. Would you rather have oops? I wanted to do this. Would you rather have 75% of a company that has 500,000 in the bank.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: or 67 of the company. That's 2.8 million, which would you rather have?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Obviously 67% of the 2.8 is way, more than 75% of 500. Yeah, does this make sense
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: always when you're fundraising, focus on what you keep
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: don't get hung up on what you sell? Can I ask a quick question? Yeah, please do.
Christal Hector: So. Let's say that a founder went into the first scenario, thinking if they could be cash positive they could raise on a higher pre money valuation. Is there any way to kind of
Christal Hector: extrapolate what that higher pre money evaluation would be to maybe justify not taking 1.5. Now.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: yep. awesome. So you just literally spoon fed me my next example. So let's do a different example.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And let's say that you have 2 offers on the table. One offer is for an 8 million pre money, and one offers for 10 million pre money. Which one do you want to take? Do you want 8 million pre money or 10?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm asking crystal 10 million, of course, 10 is 25% bigger, right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 25% bigger. Well, let's model it out. 8 million.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What's the post money gonna be?
Christal Hector: 9?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And what's the founder percentage going to be
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 91 or 89. I'm sorry. 89%
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: at 10 million.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What's the post money gonna be? 11? And what's the founder percentage? This is the one that's 91
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 91.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So this looks like it's a 25% better deal. 10 million is 25% more than 8 million. But actually, it's the difference between your owning 89 or 91. Now, I'd rather own 91 than own 89 if they were all equal in every other way.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But what if this investor is the way. Better partner for you. What if they have leads that will help you sell? What if they have connections that will help you with your next fundraise?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It might be a better deal to take the 8 million pre. And here's the thing. If you don't do this little exercise, you're gonna be so focused. You're gonna be like, well, I gotta take that one. It's 25 bigger.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But it's not 25% more for you. I am going to leave this in the spreadsheet. I'm going to save this spreadsheet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And now, when I give you the spreadsheet at the end, you're going to get this copy with this stuff in it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Does this make sense?
Reece Franklin: Yes, but I also have kind of a question that's
Reece Franklin:  maybe for after. But it's like when we're looking at the
Reece Franklin: advertising and the cost effectiveness of
Reece Franklin: the ads. My main hesitancy is that we're scaling. It's such a factor that I have no idea. If these model numbers have any hope of remaining true. Otherwise, we just dump a billion dollars into ads.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Great question, so 2 things. One is that it depends on the market and how big the market is. So we're going after consumers. There are millions and millions and millions of them. We're not going to saturate a market with 40,000 spend in Facebook or Google, like, if we're spending 40 million, maybe we'd saturate. We're nowhere near saturating. But it is something you need to be aware of, because if you saturate, if you pick all the low hanging fruit, you may have to pick more expensive fruit for the next one. So that is a very valid concern.
The second thing is, I actually have a way. Better way to solve for this problem.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You guys fell into my trap. I love this. You're such a good audience. You fell into the trap because I said, Oh, what can we do? We're short of money, and you're like, Oh, just raise a little more.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The actual answer is, it makes no sense to spend $40,000 a month on advertising in month one, and in month 60,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? So you haven't seen the rest of my model. But I'm sure you can instant can figure out that it's a bottoms up model. And I have this traffic detail tab.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna tell you a little more about conventions here. The stuff that's in gray has been done. So it is history, and it is hard coded. It will never change the stuff that's to the right that's in white is all calculated and formulaic. But you can see that when I typed in 40,000 here it went all the way across the same amount, and advertising every single month for the history of this model that makes 0 sense.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Why don't we just do something like either ramp that up over time, which is, by the way, those are in blue? It's a little against my convention. I have to do some things to make the model simple so that we can talk about it and let you get it in 10 min.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so what I did to make it simple was when I type in a number here
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it filled in all the numbers on the monthly just to make it easy. Conceptually. reality is. you probably want these to ramp up over time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You might have them be a percentage of your revenue. You might have them be a maximum of the number over here, but not to exceed 25% of the cash on hand. They're all kinds of things. It might have to be seasonal.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I think the right answer to our problem of Oh, we're 100,000 in the whole wasn't. Go raise more money just don't spend the 100,000
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? And so
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: many of these numbers. I expect that in a real model you would actually be
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: putting assumptions in month by month as you ramp it up somehow. However, you decide, appropriate
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that they won't stay same. And, by the way, customer acquisition cost won't stay the same, either, because it's worse in Octo in November and December. because everybody's advertising. So it has some seasonality into it. So that's why I made it in blue that those are assumptions that will likely change notice when I change the number. Nothing in the gray change. These are historic.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: All right. Did that answer your question.
Reece Franklin: It did. Yes, I think the market saturation piece was very helpful.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah. And so if you have a business that has market, you have to be careful about market saturation for sure. I'm gonna go back to the base case. Go back to the 1 million bucks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: oops. Let's not do that down there. I don't know what's going on. Try it again.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I think I got it. So now if I go to my annual cash flow, I'm back to my 508. Everything's base case, awesome, alright real quickly. I gotta keep going because we're gonna run out of time at some point here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: what about this section? What's all this stuff about
andrew: conversion rate from the ad spend?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah. Conversion rate from the ad spend. I hope this is totally intuitive.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Anything you can do to increase conversion rate
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is net positive to you. You spent the money. You've done the hard work. You got someone to come to your website. You want a higher percentage of them to turn into paying customers. Amazon does this to you and me every single day. We're getting Ab tested all the time. What colors the button? How big is it? What offers do they put in? What's special? What's promoted? What's not? Because if they can get an incremental little percentage. It's worth a lot of money even in this business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If I can turn 3% into customers instead of 2. That takes me from 508 to 900,000. That was worth $400,000. Now I may not be able to do that, but I might be able to go to Twoone, and it's worth 40,000. Just one tenth of 1% was worth $40,000 of extra cash in my bank account.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Right? This is why good salespeople are always a B testing their scripts. This is why good marketers are always a B testing everything that they do. So I think that's intuitive. My partner, Mark Akler. Some of you may know he's an investor here in Chicago. He refers to this as chocolatey goodness.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: When you increase conversion rates. It's just wonderful. It's like the best dessert ever.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. I'm gonna skip some of this stuff. I'm gonna jump. I have 2 more things I want to show you. And then we're gonna keep going. One is accounts receivable and accounts payable.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So can someone tell me what accounts receivable days means
andrew: the number of you get paid
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the number of days it takes for my customers to pay me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So if you have an e-commerce business, you probably don't have accounts receivable. They pay with a credit card, and you get paid right away. But many businesses. You get paid on terms. You get paid 30, 60, 90 days afterwards.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I want to make this point here. If I change. If I look at my income statement.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's first time you're seeing it, but I'll show it to you. This is my income statement, and I'm at 168. If I change how long my customers take to pay me from 30 to 60 days. Nothing's gonna change on the income statement.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I still did the same amount of hard work. I still sold the same amount of stuff I'm just a little slower to collect. I hit enter. Nothing happened. I'll undo it. Nothing happens. But let's look at cash flow
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: when I look at my cash flow statement. if I change it from 30 to 60 days, what's going to happen?
Reece Franklin: And I get pushed
to decide.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and what's going to happen to my cash at the end of the period?
Reece Franklin: Doubt
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: down. As a matter of fact, I'm bankrupt.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I sold the same amount of stuff. I did the same amount of hard work. I just said, Oh, customers pay me in 60 days instead of 30, and I'm out of business literally. You are. You are
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: providing banking services to your customers. You're giving them a loan for 60 days.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We all know how Banks have done lately. You don't want to be a startup and be a bank. They're both hard, so let's not do that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'll go back to 30. We're back in business the other side of the equation is how long you take to pay your vendors.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know. If your vendors get mad at you like I can't be your bank. You can't hold out 60 days to pay me. That's horrible. You gotta pay me sooner fine instead of paying you in 2 months I'll pay you in 2 weeks.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: 14 days instead of 60. And I'm out of business
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: really, really critical that you understand payables
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and receivables. There's one last thing I want to show you in the buildup in the detail buildup down here I have a sales detail tab and on the sales detail tab. I have this line. This is ending subscribers. So just to be clear.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: this is how many subscribers I think I'll have at the end of the period for these months. It's how many I actually OI actually had, because these months have happened. Right? 99106111259. And then this is my prediction going forward, it will change.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So watch my prediction when I change advertising. Spend. If I make this be 40,000 again. Oops, that's a bigger number.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If I make this 40,000 watch what happens to my on the right hand side to my ending subscribers, it goes way up right. I'll go back. It'll come back down. So it's dynamic.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners:  What I did was when I built the model before I had any real data. It was all predictions. I took this row, and I copied it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: for those of you who are excel geeks! What I did was I pasted values right here? What that means is, it won't ever change. I just pasted the numbers in in the value they're in. So I thought I was gonna have 100 customers in January, 100, 308, February, 110 in March, etc., etc., ending with 1,100 at the end of the year.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And then January happened, and when January happened I only had 99 customers. So what I did in January was I went to my sales detail
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I typed in the 99. Here. All the rest of these were white still, and I had a new set of numbers going forward. I took that.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I copied it, and I pasted it into the waterfall. 99, and then it's predicting 105,000, 107,110, etcetera.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and then February happens, and I'm even worse. I'm only at 100, and then March, and then April, and then May. and by the time May. And, by the way, I don't have to repeat January, because January is 99, I could put 99, 99, 99 99. It just makes it confusing. Once it's happened, it's done, it's baked.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: These are not fully baked. I thought. February is going to be 108 in my budget. Then I thought. At the end of January it was going to be 105, and February came in at 100. I was a bad estimator. but by the time I get to March to May, I have the first time where my actuals exceeded my budget.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and you can read this down. I thought 250. Then I thought 230. Then I thought, 225. Then I'm getting more optimistic. 242, 55. I hit 259.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I use this in every board that I'm on. I make them pick 3 kpis that they use, that they
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: do waterfalls with at every board meeting. I didn't invent it. Here's a link to the article where I first read it, literally the articles called The Single Best financial reporting tool ever. It's awesome in this case I made it simple
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: customers, revenue and cash
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: again. I will save this so that you have it so that you leave it. I'll give you an example where we use this in a real life situation company. I'm on. The board of their cash
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: was getting to a low point in July of like 200,000, which for a company with 30 employees, was pretty low.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Do we need to raise money? Do we need to raise money at 6 months out? I'm really worried. We looked at the waterfall
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the waterfall initially was projecting. They'd be underwater at that point. It was like negative, 150, and then it was negative 50, and then it was positive 50, and then positive, 100. And now was reading Positive 200, because the trend was going in the proper direction. We were comfortable, saying, No, let's not raise cash right now. Let's just let it roll. It's probably gonna grow.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And it did. And they were fine.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Imagine if it was reading 200 now, but it started reading a million dollars, and then 800, and then 600 and then 400. Now it's reading 200. You'd be like holy crap. We got to go raise money right now, because that's gonna be that's gonna be below 0 soon.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So this is a way of keeping yourself intellectually honest about what you've predicted, what actually happened, and how good of a predictor you are. It's super super powerful. It's in here.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I'm just going to leave it in there for you all right. I wanna make sure we covered everything we're gonna cover. So I'm gonna go back to the deck and make sure we didn't miss anything
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright things. We didn't know what impact did selling ads have on our site?
Nat Froikin: Noth
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: nothing. It was an opportunity to say No, which lets you open the door to saying yes to something more impactful.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. what impact does increasing? How much we spend on ads have a lot that was our biggest lever. That was the thing that really moved the business a lot.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Then we talked about. We don't necessarily have to raise money. We could just make ad spend more realistic right? Like make it ramp up over time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We talked about raising money, do you? Wanna do you wanna eat an entire grape or half a watermelon.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. Think about it. Make sure you do that math
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: impact conversion rate. What impact did that have on the business?
Darren Schaeffer: Always positive?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, it's always positive. So increasing ad spend is one of those where you can go dig a deeper hole that you have to get out of. But you can get out of that like you can do well, but it costs money.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Conversion rate has no negative other than you have to give it some thought and some creativity. It's only positive. What does my partner Mark call it?
andrew: Chocolate again. But, goodness! Nice
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: accounts, receivable accounts payable. You could go bankrupt if you're not watching them. We showed that and waterfall charts. We just talked about awesome. Alright. I want to talk about building the model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is how I format an income statement. We always start with the income statement. I have multiple lines of revenue. You can see. Here's my subscription, my add-ons, my e-commerce advertising.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners:  I show them all in the model as separate, almost as separate business units, as separate lines of revenue, so that we can see which ones are moving the needle.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I then look at the direct costs. cods which gets me to gross profit. Gross profit is the money you have left over after you've done the act of selling
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: before you've done, or act of fulfilling before you've done all the other stuff you have to do in your business. So you better have
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in the very early days you can be experimenting and have a negative, gross profit because you're just experimenting. You're trying to find product market fit. But when you have product market fit.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You have to have cash left over to pay for all the other stuff. I break the other stuff into 2 segments.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: The first is good that sales and marketing cause. I like spending money on sales and marketing, because that gets me more customers. I hate spending money on this stuff salaries and rent and technology and legal and travel.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's a boat anchor that slows me down.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Many people lump all of this together and call it Sgna sales general administrative. I hate that because you can't tell what you're spending money on. Is it to move the company forward, or is it pulling the company back.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and at the bottom it gets you to net profit. Now there was a question asked earlier, and I think it was Reese who asked about how complicated should you make the model?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I was talking about this, and my daughter overheard me.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: She worked with us for a startup for a couple of years, and she said, Oh, Dad, that's the case of parsimony
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like, yeah, what's parsimony? Because I had no idea. So I looked it up. And I want to share it with you. Parsimony. I'll just read this as a principal, urging you to select among competing hypotheses that which makes the fewest assumptions.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and offers the simplest explanation of the effect. If you look on the left, this is a great visual.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If you want to pull out just the you want to separate the blue from the red. You could try to be perfect and get every single little, but to write a mathematical equation that would follow that green line would be almost impossible, right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: A lot of extra work for very little extra benefit. But if you just swept the black line a very simple function. You'd be really, really close in 1 100. The amount of effort.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's what parsimony is about with financial models. Make sure you're always drawing the black line. and you only do that green line craziness if it adds a ridiculous amount of value to you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So again, I told you every model I've ever built, and every metal I've ever looked at is wrong. Some of them are more wrong than others.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but they're wrong because you use a sweeping black line. Now you want it to be
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right enough for your business. Notice. This isn't just a straight line that would be too wrong.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's an art line. It's a compromise. So think about parsimony.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Okay, the order you build this stuff. Matters always start with your assumptions. Lay out the monthly income statement
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in order to do that, you have to figure out where revenue comes from alright. So revenue. So I'm gonna who am I gonna put on the spot now that I haven't heard from. How about William? We haven't heard from William.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So, William, how much revenue are is Dollar Cave Club gonna have in January of 2,026.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: How would you figure that out?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Monthly price time subscribers? And how many subscribers do I have in January 2026.
William Stanford: I do not remember.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have no idea there isn't a simple formula for 2. It's there's not like one math equation you can type in and be like, oh, it's just, you know, pi r squared.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's not that simple, because it's based on how many subscribers you had in December of 2025. What you began with minus how many lost plus how many new ones you can't. Yeah, you gotta iterate through every single month. It's crazy.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right? But I know how many I began with, because that's what I started the pre or month with. I know how many I lost, because that's how much
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: turn I have. Multiply my churn times, my beginning, and I know how many new ones I got, because I got all these different channels, but for each channel
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I know my conversion rate times my traffic. Oh, and I know my traffic, because that's just a function of how much I spend and what the cost per click is.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You now have everything you need
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to figure out how many subscribers you have at any month. I want to show you this in excel.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So let's go to that sales detail page at. Let's go to the monthly income statement. We do everything monthly, first, by the way, and then roll it up in Daniel again. You can see the gray May has happened. What I'm trying to compute is how much subscription revenue
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm going to have in June of 2023.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It was too much calculation to put in a single cell. So I said, Oh, let's go to the sales detail tab. So I created a sales detail tab. And in my sales detail, Tab.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm starting to go through the stuff that I had showed you on the subscription
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: revenue sheet this sheet. Right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I say, okay, well, I know that I ended last month with 2, 59. So I'm going to begin this month with 2, 59.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I know my Google conversion rate that came from my assumptions. 2%. But how much Google traffic? Oh, traffic! I need to calculate traffic. So I have a traffic detail tab
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: my traffic detail tab. I know that my Google traffic while I spend 10,000. I know that these are assumptions 225. So I've got 444.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So 4,444
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners:  and on Facebook, I know that I have 5,400
for for 5,400.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Remember those 2 numbers. When I come back to sales, detail tab 2 times 4,444 gets maybe 89, 1% times 5,400 gets me the 54.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is organic. It's 11, just roll and then I know that I had 4 churn times my 2 59, which gives me 10.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So basically.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I gained 89 from Google, 54 from Facebook and 11 from organic for 154. I lost 10. So I started with 259. I subtracted 154 II mean, I added, 154. I directed 10, and I end with 403.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's the spreadsheet version of what I did in the deck.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now. that's a lot of work.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I would love it if somebody would write into the chat
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: how many subscribers I have at the end of this period, 8,536 Williams, since I was picking on you. Can you put that in the chat? 8,536?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And once you do. I am going to delete all of this, it is gone. I literally deleted all of that data.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I'm going to show you how easy this is, though, because I did the work one month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I can just highlight that month. copy it to the right.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and if I did this correctly, what number should show up in December of 27,
Reece Franklin: 8, 5, 30 cents.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Patrick. It's that easy.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So it seemed hard. But it's not actually that hard. Alright. Let's go back to our deck.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We did this crazy flow chart
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: we have to figure out we figured out where the revenue came from. We had to build a sales and a traffic. Every business is different, but if it's a e-commerce, you probably need sales and traffic. We have to repeat with expenses, but expenses are so much easier. Expenses are a function of how many customers.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: how many employees, or neither like rent, is just fixed, independent, right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We create the balance sheet.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: We create the statement of cash flow. Those all are derived off of the income statement. I'm going to give you links for how to do that. And then we roll up our monthly to annual.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So we're wrapping up. I know I'm going to be a couple minutes late here, but we started a little late using the model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So how do we use the model for fundraising?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: First off? Never send the model I told you the story is your payroll. Hold the model hostage to get the next meeting. Send it after the meeting. Second thing, when I do get the meeting I sit down, and with my investors the first words out of my mouth are. Thank you so much for coming.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but before we get started I want to share something with you, and that is the only thing I know for sure is the model is wrong.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I don't think it's that wrong, but I know it's wrong. and what I want to do is sit down with you, and I want to work through the assumptions. And if you think there are assumptions that need to be changed, let's change them.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It takes the fight out of the investor no longer my defending my model. It's absolutely right, and they're trying to prove me wrong, I said. It's wrong. Where do you. What do you? Wanna what do you wanna tweak? Let's see
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and use the meeting to work with the investor. Show them how easy you are to work with. Now, the key to doing this is, you better know your model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So, for example. I know that I cannot put 8% churn in my model. The whole model blows up. You saw it. So if an investor says, Well, I think churn should be double that it should be 8%,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I have to be prepped. I have to say you know what the average turn in the industry is. 3.5. I put in 4. Do you want to try 4 and a half.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna and I end up navigating around the potholes like you're someone who knows a road like the back of your hand, and you can drive it in the dark without headlights. You need to be able to drive your model in the dark without headlights.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and this is why it's an exercise that the founder should be doing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And you it's not something that you outsource. You have to know what levers you can and cannot pull.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Now, using the model for operating. So let's see something. My monthly income statement comes in. and it turns out it wasn't 12086. It was 13,000. What do I do to make myself a better entrepreneur?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What do I do now? I have data from quick books. That shows me what actually happened in June? What keys do I hit on my on my keyboard to make myself a better entrepreneur.
You adjust your assumptions
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: exactly. Thank you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm not just gonna type in 13,000 here. I'm gonna figure out why it's 13,000 going back to what I said in the beginning, peeling back the onion, understanding the levers. Well, it turns out my churn was only threee.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and oh! I spent 12,000 a month in marketing. and oh, my conversion rate was 2.0 5, and there's my 13,000,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and only once I get this to be really close to what actually happened by adjusting the assumptions. Then
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I highlight this, I turn it gray, and I hard code in I type in the actuals. And what happens is that now not only do. I have a good record for this month. but I just had my heat seeking missile, adjust everything.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So, for example.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: let's see, is William still on the call.
William Stanford: Yep.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So what number is the number of customers that I'm subscribers I'm gonna have at the end of the fifth year.
William Stanford: and
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that you typed into the chat.
William Stanford: 8, 5, 3, 6.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Well, guess what? Not anymore. 9507. Now.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: right. Because my heat seeking missile, adjusted its trajectory to match what the business is doing.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is the cheat code for your business. You are planning on 8,500. I'm planning on 9,500. I'm more accurate because I have another month worth of data. Now, next month it may come back down. It may go below like it's gonna depending on your business. It may oscillate.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but it's gonna continually update
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and improve. I'm gonna go back to the base case. Just so you guys don't get all confused when you open the spreadsheet oops. Not that this
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and this is 4%.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And let me just check that in there annual cash flow on that great. So back to the deck.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So each month, using the model for operating duplicate, keep the original.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: update the working copy each month, tweaking the assumptions to get as close to actual as you possibly can, and only then do you overrate the monthly number with the actuals. The new assumptions are going to help you predict the future better. It's almost like having a crystal ball. It is so powerful.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I'm going to share this model and the Dac. And all this stuff with you. Please use it as a reference, not a template. This is not about intellectual property this is about you're not being pissed off at me.
so
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm out of time. But the quick story is sure. Payroll. We change from direct marketing to direct sales, I said, oh, I'll just take my model for direct marketing. I'll pull out the marketing part. I'll put in sales. I built the model. I know it'll be easy. I spent 6 h of my life on a Saturday trying to walk them all the errors that started incurring.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I couldn't get it, and I quit, and the next day on Sunday I started with my old model in one window.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: a blank spreadsheet in the new window, and in 3 HI was done. If I couldn't shoehorn. Sure payroll sales into sure prior marketing. You are not going to shoehorn your business into Dollar Cave Club.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so please always build from scratch, even when you're tweaking your own company, you are free to plagiarize as much as you want. Use my model, put it up there, copy and paste probably better if you type the formulas yourself, so you really know them.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I just don't want you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: muttering, swear words under your breath at me when you're trying to chew horn yours into my model. Alright. So wrapping up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: financial model is a tool for fundraising. Set the concepts. The only thing I know for sure is, it's wrong.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Communicate clearly, label yourselves, use long text descriptions, etc. Speak the investor's language. Financial statements, by the way, excel is more the investor's language than google sheets. You can build stuff into Google sheets, export it to excel and send. Excel that way. The investor has a copy. Every one of you sent a Google Sheet. The first thing I did was export to excel
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and save it on my hard drive. So I have a copy of what you sent me. So when we talk a month or 2 months from now, I'll know what you said last month, and then we'll compare it to what you say this month? Right? It's about creating a a bread crumbs.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Financial model is a tool for managing. It should be built by a founder managed by a founder. There's a monthly process to update and improve
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: will help you see the future and use it to plan. Now, here's the rub.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Historically. I know that a third of you are going to be like, yeah, that was cool.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and a third, and do nothing. A third of you are, gonna be like, oh, that's cool. I gotta build a model. I get a good model, and you're gonna go get on, you get it. And then the next tiny thing is gonna come up and you're gonna be working on that. You're gonna be working on that working on that and 18 months from now. And investors gonna say, you know, I really wanna dig in. I might want to invest in this company. Can you share your model with me?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Like, Oh, yeah, I got one of those, and you pull it off the shelf. It's all dusty, and it is so wrong
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because you didn't heat seeking. Missile it. You just went on a trajectory, and it turns out that target was way off in another direction.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And you're gonna be pissed at yourself. and you're gonna be frustrated. And a third of you are gonna do exactly what I said. And you're going to build a model properly from the grounds up
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: with lever levers. And you're gonna update that model every month.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And I know that that third is the third that's going to be the most successful at fundraising and the most successful at operating their business.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What I don't know is, how do I get more than a third of you to do it so hopefully? This is a class, and I know that Brad
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and Neil and everybody else on the team are gonna try to
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: ensure that everybody
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: is keeping the model updated for the program and making decisions based on it, and that will make you better entrepreneurs and put you in a position where you will continue the habit.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So here's my contact info. I am happy to help you guys.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I cannot help everybody with their models, like, I'm not your first source. I do this
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: literally 30, 40 times a year. I could never help everybody. What I if you get stuck. If you use the resources at tech stars and you can't to figure something out.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Please feel free to reach out. Please do not send me your model and be like Hey, Troy! Great talk the other day. What do you think of my model. because what I read is, do you have an hour and a half of your life to invest in figuring the shit out?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It is hard. I Cherry, pick the low hanging fruit when I make comments to you guys before the session. I didn't do a deep dive on every model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What I will do, though, is if you say, Hey, Troy, great session! I've been working with the Business Associated tech Stars. We can't figure out how to properly calculate commission. Can you take a look at Rose 21 through 24 of the sales, Tab?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm happy to do that. A. I've probably seen it a hundred times before, and have a quick answer. And B. If I've never seen it before, I want to see it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: because I want to learn right. So if you have a specific question, feel free to reach out. Don't
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: hit me with generic questions. I just don't have time. Alright. Here's the page I promised you in the top left, or for blog posts that walk through step by step, building the model, they should be super helpful.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: In the top right is a video of me meeting with a entrepreneur I had never met before. Erin. She walks through starting with what is the definition of her business, and we we spend about 3 h together, but you only have to watch 33 min because tech stars took it and condensed all the white space out of it. So it's 33 min of our but building the whole revenue side of the model. Oh, by the way, did we talk about expenses at all?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Was I honest? We focus the entire two-hour talk on the revenue side of your model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That's what's important. We didn't talk about how much healthcare costs. We didn't talk about how many desks I need to rent or buy none of that crap. We focused on. What are the levers for revenue. So this is all about the revenue side of her model, and the bottom left is the book levers. I think you guys are all using levers right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Awesome. So you know that. And in the bottom, right is a link to the math blog the math.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Website, where I have about 45 short videos. Most of them are 2, 3, 4 min long that are categorized and helpful for entrepreneurs. I think you will find a lot of valuable stuff in there. But that's up to you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. I am done with the formal part of the presentation. I'm happy to hang out and answer some questions. If you have it, I want to just double check that I have time to do that I usually build it in. I think I do.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I do. I am happy to field. Some questions, or you guys can all run away and I apologize. We're a few minutes late, but we started late.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: cool. I have just blurred it out I think I see Steven being polite, though, so I'll give him he's got his hand up.
Steven Jiang: Oh, no, I don't have a question. I'll just say.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. just blurt it out. Who's next?
Reece Franklin: I was wondering if it's helpful in a financial model to have.
Reece Franklin: especially if you have obscure terminology like avoiding acronyms as much as possible, but for the like weird terms that you need to put in there almost like a cover tab that would to find those and give a brief overview what the levers are most important.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: totally, and not just in the model. So in and it could be cover, it could be at the end. But, like in I have one board that I'm on where they have some obscure terms. It's just a different kind of business, and they always have a glossary, the last page of the deck. It doesn't change every quarter. It's the same thing, but they have very tight definitions of their terms. So some people. So, for instance, revenue
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: some businesses. Let's take. Let's not take this business. Let's take another techstars company. You guys all know spot hero.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So spot heroes a mobile parking app. So you reserve parking on your app, you pay for it, and then when you go into the parking lot. You just scan a little QR. Code. The gate opens, and when you exit you scan, and you, the benefit is that you don't have to the job to be done is, how do I get parking without stressing over it?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And so if I'm gonna go downtown, I'll buy a spot hero. I know exactly where I'm parking how much it costs. I can compare prices, and I don't have to drive around and circle stressing over it. That's the job to be done.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: but in spot here, if I pay 25 bucks for a play, for a spot in an indoor garage spot here will probably only keeps $5 of it. So when they say revenue is that $25, or is it $5?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: It's unclear. So a company like that would have a glossary that would talk about gross revenue net revenue, you know, net profit. And so they'd have clear, concise definitions of what their various terms are, because everybody uses things a little differently.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Think it's a great idea.
Aspen Buckingham: Do you have any advice for sharing and using your model with your team?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, I tend to be very transparent.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: so I love the entire team. To have the model where it becomes tricky is in the model is salaries. And so.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you know. In my very first business salaries were transparent. When we were 6, 8, 1012 people. Everybody knew what everybody else made. I said, well, we're a meritocracy. Everybody should know
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And then it got a little dicey we merged with another company. Salaries were out of skew and it just got too hard when you're tiny. If it's, you know, 2, 3 founders, I think it's totally fine to share.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: As you start to get people more and more people in at different levels. I think salary information should be confidential, and that makes it a little harder to share the model. So you have a couple of options. One is, you could have a separate spreadsheet for salaries
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that is not part of the model, but the sum. The total of salaries comes in, or the other is, you give everybody assignments here. You control the marketing part piece you control, and then you assemble it later.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But I don't have a
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that's where it gets sticky. Other than that I love sharing them all. I want everybody to know how many customers we can add we're supposed to have. I want. Everybody know what our objectives and goals are. Really quick story in 2,010 our first cohort of accelerate labs. There's a company called
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Josh Fernandez company.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that marketing company, Brad.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: it's Brad still here. Oh, my God! But you know, Josh, he's a mentor. It'll hit me in a second. Anyway, they had a goal. They needed to get gamers on their platform, and they had this goal to get a million gamers by the end of August.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Way before game or jive, anyway, and I told him
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: tap me. It was called, Tap me TAPM. E. Weird name, but tap me and I told them, put a big whiteboard, have the days of the month and your goal of 100 of a million
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: users on the platform and start recording each day how many you have, and just put it in the office in a spot everybody could see. This was Pre covid pre zoom.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: sure enough, with 2, 3 days to go in the month. They were short by like 75,000 users, and one of the programmers was like, Hey, do you need 75 users. My college roommates got like 120,000 users on his platform. We could get him to sign up, and in the next 2 days and hit her goal.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And that way you get everybody focused on the same goal. They hit their goal. It was awesome.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So the more transparent you can be. There's sometimes their cost. But I think it's really beneficial. All right. Eric had a question.
Eric Yan | VisualLabs AI: Good. So as an investor. How do you suggest
Eric Yan | VisualLabs AI: founders include the financial model into their initial pitch or their pitch deck. So, for instance, if you do talk about some of the market sizing opportunities. Do you use a separate slide like this one as a way to justify your numbers? Or how do you go about like presenting that to the investors. So I'll be really specific. And were you here when I told the story about your payroll and my setting the hook and baiting the hook.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So that's what I did. So I would have a summary, and it was a slide, not a spreadsheet, a slide that had like 5 years and 7 8 rows, and that was to bait that hook.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That is different than market sizing. I want to be really clear. Market sizing is Tam and Som, and all that stuff. How big is the market?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: That is very different from how big is your company going to be? It's kind of the upper limit of what your company can be. So you do need to have a market size
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: slide. And generally, for me, like, you know, okay, the market's over a billion. I don't care if it's 2 billion or 200 billion. It's big enough, because if we that's big enough,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: some investors are different about that. But yeah. So I would go back and maybe listen to how I did did it with sure peril, where I baited the hook with a very high, level summary. I've course, had an appendix that had you know, a little more detail to set that hook. And, by the way, if you are doing a presentation in either Powerpoint or
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: in keynote. Not sure about Google slides, I think, in Google slides, too. you should have a cheat sheet of what
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: slides have what content on them. So I have an appendix slide. 35 has. My, I'm going to show you
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: show. Don't tell is what we say in
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: tech stars. So oh, I think I closed my no, I didn't. Here we go. So watch this.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: So I am not sharing my screen.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I will share my screen desktop to share. I'm sharing my screen.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Oh, I want a desktop one. Sorry I'm screwing this up. I apologize. Wow! This is getting slow.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Alright. I'm gonna try one more time.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: This is worth it. Hold with me. I want that one share. and then I want this one to play
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: play
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright. So I'm in my deck, and I'm way up here in the beginning, and somebody says, Oh, I want to know the details on X, and instead of paging through all of the slides and showing them all the things I thought they might be concerned about. I happen to know that that's on Slide 23,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and so I hit 23 and enter, and I jump right to the answer. and when I'm done I go back to slide 2 that I was on and boom! I'm right there.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You can jump to any slide in a deck, strictly by typing the number of the slide. I'm going to go to slide 32. In this case.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Boom things we don't know. I'm going to go back to slide 3 boom. I'm on the agenda. You look like a rock star. When you have these, when you have these
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: all queued up, and when someone says, Show me your unit economics, you could jump to the unit economics slide. Someone says, Show me your go to market. You jump to the got to market and you don't page them through all the things you were worried they were going to ask about
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I think that hopefully that answered Eric's questions. I'm sorry that took way too long. Alright, Nat, you were next on my screen.
Nat Froikin: Yeah, I was just wondering if you had any tips on refocusing your team if they become too focused on like expenses as opposed to revenue.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah, all I talk about is revenue.
Nat Froikin: I mean, I don't know. I mean, so it's your payroll.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I learned that. You know we had a couple of mantras, and we would just keep repeating them and keep repeating them, and I know I was starting to get success when I heard the employees repeating them
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like. So one of them was sure payroll. We're gonna be the simplest, easiest way for small businesses to process their payroll. I said that thousands of times, and I knew I was getting success when I heard an employee saying it.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I knew I was getting real success when significant others of employees were starting to say it like it should be that part like literally some. And you have to pick one or 2 things that you're focused on. You can't focus on 10 things at once.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: If your company is too focused on expenses. then you have, you say, listen, we've got to grow revenue. We cannot save our way to profitability. We're going to grow our way
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: to success.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: And then, you know, when someone comes in and says, Hey, I want to save money on this thing, you say is that gonna help us grow our way to success.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: grow our way to success, grow our way to success, and you keep saying it and saying it, and eventually they're saying it. And eventually their significant others are saying it like that literally, it's that boring. But you have to pick. What are the battles you want to fight and just be consistent and consistent and consistent.
Nat Froikin: Thank you.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Yeah.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: alright. I'm hopefully gonna engage with you guys throughout the course of tech stars. I know I'm on the schedule for a few things. Feel free to reach out to me directly. I will get this. So, Chloe, I'm gonna send this stuff to you for the distribution. I'm gonna send Chloe for files. You're gonna get the model we worked on with all the tweaks we made.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You're gonna get the deck we went over. You're gonna get a description of another business. That is A B 2 B business called Gfi foods. They're selling baby food to grocery stores through wholesale distribution. And you're gonna get a model for Gfi foods. If you understood the model here. You'll understand the model for Gfi foods. They're really the same template. And and Chloe will see that everybody gets them. However, you're doing that
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: through base camp or slack or email, whatever and again, if you have questions, I'm gonna try to be around this whole cohort. But please don't reach out with me with general like. I need help with my model, because there are resources you have within tech stars for that. Alright.
Reece Franklin: I think II have one more question. If you have a minute when it comes to like knowing the precise levers and knowing your model really really well, is that something that you think all founders on a team should like know, like the back of their hand, or mostly one or 2,
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: the one who's really so. You need to let me say this differently. I think all the founders should understand the model. I think you only need to have one who knows how to drive the model.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and I'm gonna put a finer point on it. There have been times where it isn't necessarily the founder who drives the model, but it could be the Cfo who drives the model, but who is part of the executive team now, and who owns that piece of the business
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: usually at the stage you're in now. It's got to be a founder.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: But a year from now, 2 years from now might be your Cfo. And
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: you better know it really well. But you better work. But as long as you work well with the Cfo. But then that Cfo. Has to be in every fundraising meeting.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: What you can't have is a fundraising meeting where you're there and investors as well. What happens if our advertising expense goes up by 25. You're like, I have no idea
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: that's a bad answer. The good answer is, Well. let's pull up the model, and you turn to the Cfo. And she pulls it up, and she says, Here it is. It's blah blah! Blah! Blah! Blah! Blah! Blah! Let's do what if with it
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: like that's awesome. You can be a team. One of the things that happens in entrepreneurship day one when, especially if you're solo founder, you wear all kinds of hats as a founder.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and as the company grows you wear fewer and fewer of those hats celebrate the success. When you divide people's jobs. some people get nervous about that. You have a CTO who you divided into a CTO and a Vp of engineering. And you're like, wait, they're taking a bunch of responsibility from that person. That's bad. No, no, no, that's good.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: and you have to have a culture where you celebrate that success. So it's fine. If, as a founder, you originally were the Cfo. But when the time is right, you bring in someone, and they may not have that title. It might be director of finance, whatever Vp. Of finance. But you're taking many hats and you're dividing them up, so that by the time you have a hundred employees
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: each person is doing a very focused thing. And it's very clear.
Reece Franklin: Absolutely. Thank you.
Reece Franklin: Thank you for the time. Today.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Of course. Alright.
Nat Froikin: I have. You guys are not in Chicago today. Right?
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: You're not in person. Monday. Have a great time. I'm sorry that I won't be there. I will be way far away. But
Abdullah: you're in Dubai. Yeah. Yeah.
Abdullah: Oh, do you have 2 min? Can I ask you some questions? Because I've never been there? And I'm flying into Dubai. Alright.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: I'm gonna steal this opportunity to chat with him. Alright. Thank you, everybody.
bradschnitzer: I'll stop recording.
Troy Henikoff (he/him) | MATH Venture Partners: Please.